[House Report 111-366]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


111th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    111-366
_______________________________________________________________________

                                     


 DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
               RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                               ----------                              

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                              To accompany

                               H.R. 3288




                December 8, 2009.--Ordered to be printed

 DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
               RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010


111th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    111-366
_______________________________________________________________________

                                     


 DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
               RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                               __________

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                              To accompany

                               H.R. 3288




                December 8, 2009.--Ordered to be printed
111th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    111-366

======================================================================



 
 DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
               RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                _______
                                

                December 8, 2009.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

  Mr. Olver, from the committee of conference, submitted the following

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                        [To accompany H.R. 3288]

      The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses on the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
3288), making appropriations for the Departments of 
Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for 
other purposes, having met, after full and free conference, 
have agreed to recommend and do recommend to their respective 
Houses as follows:
      That the House recede from its disagreement to the 
amendment of the Senate and agree to the same with an amendment 
as follows:
      In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the 
Senate amendment, insert the following:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE

    This Act may be cited as the ``Consolidated Appropriations 
Act, 2010''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Statement of appropriations.

 DIVISION A--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of Transportation
Title II--Department of Housing and Urban Development
Title III--Related agencies
Title IV--General provisions--This Act

      DIVISION B--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of Commerce
Title II--Department of Justice
Title III--Science
Title IV--Related agencies
Title V--General provisions

  DIVISION C--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                                ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of the Treasury
Title II--Executive Office of the President and funds appropriated to 
          the President
Title III--The judiciary
Title IV--District of Columbia
Title V--Independent agencies
Title VI--General provisions--This Act
Title VII--General provisions--Government-wide
Title VIII--General provisions--District of Columbia

    DIVISION D--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of Labor
Title II--Department of Health and Human Services
Title III--Department of Education
Title IV--Related agencies
Title V--General provisions

   DIVISION E--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of Defense
Title II--Department of Veterans Affairs
Title III--Related agencies
Title IV--Overseas contingency operations
Title V--General provisions

    DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED 
                    PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

Title I--Department of State and related agency
Title II--United States Agency for International Development
Title III--Bilateral economic assistance
Title IV--International security assistance
Title V--Multilateral assistance
Title VI--Export and investment assistance
Title VII--General provisions

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be 
treated as referring only to the provisions of that division.

SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2010.

DIVISION A--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$102,686,000, of which not to exceed $2,631,000 shall be 
available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
exceed $986,000 shall be available for the immediate Office of 
the Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $20,359,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed 
$11,100,000 shall be available for the Office of the Under 
Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
$10,559,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,504,000 
shall be available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Governmental Affairs; not to exceed $25,520,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration; not to exceed $2,055,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,658,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Executive Secretariat; not to 
exceed $1,499,000 shall be available for the Office of Small 
and Disadvantaged Business Utilization; not to exceed 
$10,600,000 for the Office of Intelligence, Security, and 
Emergency Response; and not to exceed $13,215,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Chief Information Officer: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the 
Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary: 
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all such 
transfers: Provided further, That notice of any change in 
funding greater than 5 percent shall be submitted for approval 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $60,000 shall be for allocation 
within the Department for official reception and representation 
expenses as the Secretary may determine: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, excluding fees 
authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited to this 
appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act 
shall be available for the position of Assistant Secretary for 
Public Affairs.

                  NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS

    For capital investments in surface transportation 
infrastructure, $600,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2012: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Transportation shall distribute funds provided under this 
heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a State, local 
government, transit agency, or a collaboration among such 
entities on a competitive basis for projects that will have a 
significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a 
region: Provided further, That projects eligible for funding 
provided under this heading shall include, but not be limited 
to, highway or bridge projects eligible under title 23, United 
States Code; public transportation projects eligible under 
chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code; passenger and 
freight rail transportation projects; and port infrastructure 
investments: Provided further, That in distributing funds 
provided under this heading, the Secretary shall take such 
measures so as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution 
of funds, an appropriate balance in addressing the needs of 
urban and rural areas, and the investment in a variety of 
transportation modes: Provided further, That a grant funded 
under this heading shall be not less than $10,000,000 and not 
greater than $200,000,000: Provided further, That not more than 
25 percent of the funds made available under this heading may 
be awarded to projects in a single State: Provided further, 
That the Federal share of the costs for which an expenditure is 
made under this heading shall be, at the option of the 
recipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall give priority to projects that require a 
contribution of Federal funds in order to complete an overall 
financing package: Provided further, That not less than 
$140,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading shall be 
for projects located in rural areas: Provided further, That for 
projects located in rural areas, the minimum grant size shall 
be $1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the Federal share 
of costs above 80 percent: Provided further, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, the Secretary may use an 
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 for the purpose of paying the 
subsidy and administrative costs of projects eligible for 
federal credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, United 
States Code, if the Secretary finds that such use of the funds 
would advance the purposes of this paragraph: Provided further, 
That of the amount made available under this heading, the 
Secretary may use an amount not to exceed $35,000,000 for the 
planning, preparation or design of projects eligible for 
funding under this heading: Provided further, That projects 
conducted using funds provided under this heading must comply 
with the requirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 
40, United States Code: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall publish criteria on which to base the competition for any 
grants awarded under this heading no sooner than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act, require applications for funding 
provided under this heading to be submitted no sooner than 120 
days after the publication of such criteria, and announce all 
projects selected to be funded from funds provided under this 
heading no sooner than September 15, 2010: Provided further, 
That the Secretary may retain up to $25,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading, and may transfer portions of those 
funds to the Administrators of the Federal Highway 
Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, the Federal 
Railroad Administration and the Federal Maritime 
Administration, to fund the award and oversight of grants made 
under this heading.

                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the 
Department of Transportation's financial systems and re-
engineering business processes, $5,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                         OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
$9,667,000.

           TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation 
planning, research, systems development, development 
activities, and making grants, to remain available until 
expended, $16,168,000.

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital 
outlays of the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed 
$147,596,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available 
to the Department of Transportation: Provided, That such 
services shall be provided on a competitive basis to entities 
within the Department of Transportation: Provided further, That 
the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to 
non-DOT entities: Provided further, That no funds appropriated 
in this Act to an agency of the Department shall be transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund without the approval of the agency 
modal administrator: Provided further, That no assessments may 
be levied against any program, budget activity, subactivity or 
project funded by this Act unless notice of such assessments 
and the basis therefor are presented to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

               MINORITY BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER PROGRAM

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $353,000, as authorized 
by 49 U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$18,367,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry 
out the guaranteed loan program, $570,000.

                       MINORITY BUSINESS OUTREACH

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center 
outreach activities, $3,074,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
332, these funds may be used for business opportunities related 
to any mode of transportation.

                        PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source 
to carry out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 
41731 through 41742, $150,000,000, to be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That, in determining between or among 
carriers competing to provide service to a community, the 
Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements of the 
carriers: Provided further, That, if the funds under this 
heading are insufficient to meet the costs of the essential air 
service program in the current fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
transfer such sums as may be necessary to carry out the 
essential air service program from any available amounts 
appropriated to or directly administered by the Office of the 
Secretary for such fiscal year.

  ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to 
the Department of Transportation may be obligated for the 
Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds 
appropriated to the modal administrations in this Act, except 
for activities underway on the date of enactment of this Act, 
unless such assessments or agreements have completed the normal 
reprogramming process for Congressional notification.
    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
may be obligated or expended to establish or implement a 
program under which essential air service communities are 
required to assume subsidy costs commonly referred to as the 
EAS local participation program.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary or his designee may engage in 
activities with States and State legislators to consider 
proposals related to the reduction of motorcycle fatalities.
    Sec. 104.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
transfer the unexpended balances available for the bonding 
assistance program from ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and 
Expenses'' to ``Minority Business Outreach''.
    Sec. 105.  Such amounts as are required from amounts 
provided in this Act to the Office of the Secretary of 
Transportation for the Transportation Planning, Research and 
Development program may be used for the development, 
coordination, and analysis of data collection procedures and 
national performance measures.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               OPERATIONS

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including 
operations and research activities related to commercial space 
transportation, administrative expenses for research and 
development, establishment of air navigation facilities, the 
operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to 
the public, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by 
Public Law 108-176, $9,350,028,000, of which $4,000,000,000 
shall be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of 
which not to exceed $7,299,299,000 shall be available for air 
traffic organization activities; not to exceed $1,234,065,000 
shall be available for aviation safety activities; not to 
exceed $15,237,000 shall be available for commercial space 
transportation activities; not to exceed $113,681,000 shall be 
available for financial services activities; not to exceed 
$100,428,000 shall be available for human resources program 
activities; not to exceed $341,977,000 shall be available for 
region and center operations and regional coordination 
activities; not to exceed $196,063,000 shall be available for 
staff offices; and not to exceed $49,278,000 shall be available 
for information services: Provided, That the Secretary utilize 
not less than $17,084,000 of the funds provided for aviation 
safety activities to pay for staff increases in the Office of 
Aviation Flight Standards and the Office of Aircraft 
Certification: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided for increases to the staffs of the aviation flight 
standards and aircraft certification offices shall be used for 
other purposes: Provided further, That not to exceed 2 percent 
of any budget activity, except for aviation safety budget 
activity, may be transferred to any budget activity under this 
heading: Provided further, That no transfer may increase or 
decrease any appropriation by more than 2 percent: Provided 
further, That any transfer in excess of 2 percent shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 405 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section: Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each 
fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual 
update to the report submitted to Congress in December 2004 
pursuant to section 221 of Public Law 108-176: Provided 
further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to the Congress: Provided further, That not 
later than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, the 
Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report 
that describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, 
and training flight standards and aircraft certification staff 
in a format similar to the one utilized for the controller 
staffing plan, including stated attrition estimates and 
numerical hiring goals by fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 per 
day for each day after March 31 that such report has not been 
submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That funds may be 
used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-
setting organization to assist in the development of aviation 
safety standards: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for new applicants for the second 
career training program: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal Aviation 
Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically 
authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, foreign authorities, other public authorities, 
and private sources, for expenses incurred in the provision of 
agency services, including receipts for the maintenance and 
operation of air navigation facilities, and for issuance, 
renewal or modification of certificates, including airman, 
aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related 
thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration forms: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $9,500,000 shall be for the contract 
tower cost-sharing program: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and cartography are 
available for activities conducted by, or coordinated through, 
the Working Capital Fund: Provided further, That of the funds 
available under this heading not to exceed $500,000 shall be 
provided to the Department of Transportation's Office of 
Inspector General through reimbursement to conduct the annual 
audits of financial statements in accordance with section 3521 
of title 31, United States Code, and not to exceed $120,000 
shall be provided to that office through reimbursement to 
conduct the annual Enterprise Services Center Statement on 
Auditing Standards 70 audit.

                        FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, 
improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of national 
airspace systems and experimental facilities and equipment, as 
authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United 
States Code, including initial acquisition of necessary sites 
by lease or grant; engineering and service testing, including 
construction of test facilities and acquisition of necessary 
sites by lease or grant; construction and furnishing of 
quarters and related accommodations for officers and employees 
of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available 
under this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation 
and certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund, $2,936,203,000, of which $2,466,203,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2012, and of which 
$470,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2010: 
Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred 
in the establishment and modernization of air navigation 
facilities: Provided further, That upon initial submission to 
the Congress of the fiscal year 2011 President's budget, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress a 
comprehensive capital investment plan for the Federal Aviation 
Administration which includes funding for each budget line item 
for fiscal years 2011 through 2015, with total funding for each 
year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and 
Budget.

                 RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
research, engineering, and development, as authorized under 
part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
including construction of experimental facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, $190,500,000, 
to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation as offsetting 
collections, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources, 
which shall be available for expenses incurred for research, 
engineering, and development.

                       GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid 
for airport planning and development, and noise compatibility 
planning and programs as authorized under subchapter I of 
chapter 471 and subchapter I of chapter 475 of title 49, United 
States Code, and under other law authorizing such obligations; 
for procurement, installation, and commissioning of runway 
incursion prevention devices and systems at airports of such 
title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of title 49, 
United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those 
related to airport operating certificates under section 44706 
of title 49, United States Code, $3,000,000,000 to be derived 
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That none of the funds under this 
heading shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,515,000,000 in fiscal year 2010, notwithstanding section 
47117(g) of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, 
That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
for the replacement of baggage conveyor systems, 
reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other airport 
improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of funds limited under this heading, 
not more than $93,422,000 shall be obligated for 
administration, not less than $15,000,000 shall be available 
for the airport cooperative research program, not less than 
$22,472,000 shall be for Airport Technology Research and 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available and transferred to ``Office of the Secretary, 
Salaries and Expenses'' to carry out the Small Community Air 
Service Development Program.

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts authorized for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2009, and prior years under sections 48103 and 
48112 of title 49, United States Code, $394,000,000 are 
permanently rescinded.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
compensate in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the 
federally funded research and development center contract 
between the Federal Aviation Administration and the Center for 
Advanced Aviation Systems Development during fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
pursue or adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport 
sponsors to provide to the Federal Aviation Administration 
without cost building construction, maintenance, utilities and 
expenses, or space in airport sponsor-owned buildings for 
services relating to air traffic control, air navigation, or 
weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of funds in 
this section does not apply to negotiations between the agency 
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' 
rates for these items or to grant assurances that require 
airport sponsors to provide land without cost to the FAA for 
air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 
49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303: 
Provided, That during fiscal year 2010, 49 U.S.C. 41742(b) 
shall not apply, and any amount remaining in such account at 
the close of that fiscal year may be made available to satisfy 
section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of 
title 49, United States Code, shall be credited to the 
appropriation current at the time of collection, to be merged 
with and available for the same purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114. (a) Section 44302(f)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``September 30, 2009,'' and 
        inserting ``September 30, 2010,''; and
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 2009,'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2010,''.
    (b) Section 44303(b) of such title is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2009,'' and inserting ``December 31, 2010,''.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by 
this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or prior 
permission rules at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.
    Sec. 116.  None of the funds limited by this Act for grants 
under the Airport Improvement Program shall be made available 
to the sponsor of a commercial service airport if such sponsor 
fails to agree to a request from the Secretary of 
Transportation for cost-free space in a non-revenue producing, 
public use area of the airport terminal or other airport 
facilities for the purpose of carrying out a public service air 
passenger rights and consumer outreach campaign.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, 
United States Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration 
employee unless such employee actually performed work during 
the time corresponding to such premium pay.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated 
or expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration to purchase a store gift card or gift 
certificate through use of a Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 119.  The Secretary shall apportion to the sponsor of 
an airport that received scheduled or unscheduled air service 
from a large certified air carrier (as defined in part 241 of 
title 14 Code of Federal Regulations, or such other regulations 
as may be issued by the Secretary under the authority of 
section 41709) an amount equal to the minimum apportionment 
specified in 49 U.S.C. 47114(c), if the Secretary determines 
that airport had more than 10,000 passenger boardings in the 
preceding calendar year, based on data submitted to the 
Secretary under part 241 of title 14, Code of Federal 
Regulations.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $413,533,000, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
shall be paid in accordance with law from appropriations made 
available by this Act to the Federal Highway Administration for 
necessary expenses for administration and operation. In 
addition, not to exceed $3,524,000 shall be paid from 
appropriations made available by this Act and transferred to 
the Department of Transportation's Office of Inspector General 
for costs associated with audits and investigations of projects 
and programs of the Federal Highway Administration, and not to 
exceed $285,000 shall be paid from appropriations made 
available by this Act and provided to that office through 
reimbursement to conduct the annual audits of financial 
statements in accordance with section 3521 of title 31, United 
States Code. In addition, not to exceed $3,220,000 shall be 
paid from appropriations made available by this Act and 
transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission in 
accordance with section 104 of title 23, United States Code.

                          FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for 
which are in excess of $41,107,000,000 for Federal-aid highways 
and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 2010: 
Provided, That within the $41,107,000,000 obligation limitation 
on Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction 
programs, not more than $429,800,000 shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs for transportation 
research (chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; sections 
111, 5505, and 5506 of title 49, United States Code; and title 
5 of Public Law 109-59) for fiscal year 2010: Provided further, 
That this limitation on transportation research programs shall 
not apply to any authority previously made available for 
obligation: Provided further, That the Secretary may, as 
authorized by section 605(b) of title 23, United States Code, 
collect and spend fees to cover the costs of services of expert 
firms, including counsel, in the field of municipal and project 
finance to assist in the underwriting and servicing of Federal 
credit instruments and all or a portion of the costs to the 
Federal Government of servicing such credit instruments: 
Provided further, That such fees are available until expended 
to pay for such costs: Provided further, That such amounts are 
in addition to administrative expenses that are also available 
for such purpose, and are not subject to any obligation 
limitation or the limitation on administrative expenses under 
section 608 of title 23, United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States 
Code, that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, not 
otherwise provided, including reimbursement for sums expended 
pursuant to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $41,846,000,000 or 
so much thereof as may be available in and derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to 
remain available until expended.

                   SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES

    For the necessary expenses of certain highway and surface 
transportation projects, $292,829,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the amount provided under this 
heading shall be made available for the programs, projects, and 
activities identified under this heading in the explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act: Provided further, That funds 
provided under this heading, at the request of a State, shall 
be transferred by the Secretary to another Federal agency: 
Provided further, That the Federal share payable on account of 
any program, project, or activity carried out with funds 
provided under this heading shall be 100 percent: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading 
shall be subject to any limitation on obligations for Federal-
aid highways and highway safety construction programs set forth 
in this Act or any other Act.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2010, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways amounts authorized for 
        administrative expenses and programs by section 104(a) 
        of title 23, United States Code; programs funded from 
        the administrative takedown authorized by section 
        104(a)(1) of title 23, United States Code (as in effect 
        on the date before the date of enactment of the Safe, 
        Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity 
        Act: A Legacy for Users); the highway use tax evasion 
        program; and the Bureau of Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation 
        limitation for Federal-aid highways that is equal to 
        the unobligated balance of amounts made available from 
        the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
        Account) for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        programs for previous fiscal years the funds for which 
        are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
                aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and 
                highway safety construction programs (other 
                than sums authorized to be appropriated for 
                provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) 
                through (9) of subsection (b) and sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for section 105 
                of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(10) for 
                such fiscal year), less the aggregate of the 
                amounts not distributed under paragraphs (1) 
                and (2) of this subsection;
            (4)(A) distribute the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate amounts not 
        distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2), for sections 
        1301, 1302, and 1934 of the Safe, Accountable, 
        Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy 
        for Users; sections 117 (but individually for each 
        project numbered 1 through 3676 listed in the table 
        contained in section 1702 of the Safe, Accountable, 
        Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy 
        for Users) and section 144(g) of title 23, United 
        States Code; and section 14501 of title 40, United 
        States Code, so that the amount of obligation authority 
        available for each of such sections is equal to the 
        amount determined by multiplying the ratio determined 
        under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be 
        appropriated for that section for the fiscal year; and
            (B) distribute $2,000,000,000 for section 105 of 
        title 23, United States Code;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided 
        for Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate amounts 
        not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) and 
        amounts distributed under paragraph (4), for each of 
        the programs that are allocated by the Secretary under 
        the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
        Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users and title 
        23, United States Code (other than to programs to which 
        paragraphs (1) and (4) apply), by multiplying the ratio 
        determined under paragraph (3) by the amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated for each such program for 
        such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided 
        for Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate amounts 
        not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) and 
        amounts distributed under paragraphs (4) and (5), for 
        Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction 
        programs (other than the amounts apportioned for the 
        equity bonus program, but only to the extent that the 
        amounts apportioned for the equity bonus program for 
        the fiscal year are greater than $2,639,000,000, and 
        the Appalachian development highway system program) 
        that are apportioned by the Secretary under the Safe, 
        Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity 
        Act: A Legacy for Users and title 23, United States 
        Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated 
                for such programs that are apportioned to each 
                State for such fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to 
                be appropriated for such programs that are 
                apportioned to all States for such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to 
obligations: (1) under section 125 of title 23, United States 
Code; (2) under section 147 of the Surface Transportation 
Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under section 9 of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1981; (4) under subsections (b) and (j) of 
section 131 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 
1982; (5) under subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the 
Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 
1987; (6) under sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991; (7) under 
section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in effect on 
the day before the date of the enactment of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century; (8) under section 105 of title 
23, United States Code, as in effect for fiscal years 1998 
through 2004, but only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for 
each of those fiscal years; (9) for Federal-aid highway 
programs for which obligation authority was made available 
under the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century or 
subsequent public laws for multiple years or to remain 
available until used, but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used; (10) under 
section 105 of title 23, United States Code, but only in an 
amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 
through 2010; and (11) under section 1603 of the Safe, 
Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
Legacy for Users, to the extent that funds obligated in 
accordance with that section were not subject to a limitation 
on obligations at the time at which the funds were initially 
made available for obligation.
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--
Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after 
August 1 of such fiscal year, revise a distribution of the 
obligation limitation made available under subsection (a) if 
the amount distributed cannot be obligated during that fiscal 
year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able 
to obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to 
Transportation Research Programs.--The obligation limitation 
shall apply to transportation research programs carried out 
under chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code, and title V 
(research title) of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, except that 
obligation authority made available for such programs under 
such limitation shall remain available for a period of 3 fiscal 
years and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway 
safety construction programs for future fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the 
        States any funds that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for 
                such fiscal year for Federal-aid highways 
                programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be 
                allocated to the States, and will not be 
                available for obligation, in such fiscal year 
                due to the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under 
        paragraph (1) in the same ratio as the distribution of 
        obligation authority under subsection (a)(6).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purposes 
        described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States 
        Code.
    (f) Special Limitation Characteristics.--Obligation 
limitation distributed for a fiscal year under subsection 
(a)(4) for the provision specified in subsection (a)(4) shall--
            (1) remain available until used for obligation of 
        funds for that provision; and
            (2) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
        imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
        highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
        years.
    (g) High Priority Project Flexibility.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
        obligation authority distributed for such fiscal year 
        under subsection (a)(4) for each project numbered 1 
        through 3676 listed in the table contained in section 
        1702 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
        Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users may be 
        obligated for any other project in such section in the 
        same State.
            (2) Restoration.--Obligation authority used as 
        described in paragraph (1) shall be restored to the 
        original purpose on the date on which obligation 
        authority is distributed under this section for the 
        next fiscal year following obligation under paragraph 
        (1).
    (h) Limitation on Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to limit the distribution of 
obligation authority under subsection (a)(4)(A) for each of the 
individual projects numbered greater than 3676 listed in the 
table contained in section 1702 of the Safe, Accountable, 
Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for 
Users.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received 
by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of 
data products, for necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 
U.S.C. 111 may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account 
for the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses: 
Provided, That such funds shall be subject to the obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 122.  There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $650,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2012: Provided, That the funds provided under 
this section shall be apportioned to the States in the same 
ratio as the obligation limitation for fiscal year 2010 is 
distributed among the States in section 120(a)(6) of this Act, 
and made available for the restoration, repair, construction, 
and other activities eligible under paragraph (b) of section 
133 of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That 
funds apportioned under this section shall be administered as 
if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code: 
Provided further, That the Federal share payable on account of 
any project or activity carried out with funds apportioned 
under this section shall be 80 percent: Provided further, That 
funding provided under this section shall be in addition to any 
and all funds provided for fiscal year 2010 in this or any 
other Act for ``Federal-aid Highways'' and shall not affect the 
distribution of funds provided for ``Federal-aid Highways'' in 
any other Act: Provided further, That the amounts made 
available under this section shall not be subject to any 
limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways or highway 
safety construction programs set forth in any Act: Provided 
further, That section 1101(b) of Public Law 109-59 shall apply 
to funds apportioned under this section.
    Sec. 123.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under 
his statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for 
Federal-aid highway projects, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall make an informal public notice and comment opportunity on 
the intent to issue such waiver and the reasons therefor: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall provide an annual report to 
the Appropriations Committees of the Congress on any waivers 
granted under the Buy America requirements.
    Sec. 124. (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection 
(b), none of the funds made available, limited, or otherwise 
affected by this Act shall be used to approve or otherwise 
authorize the imposition of any toll on any segment of highway 
located on the Federal-aid system in the State of Texas that--
            (1) as of the date of enactment of this Act, is not 
        tolled;
            (2) is constructed with Federal assistance provided 
        under title 23, United States Code; and
            (3) is in actual operation as of the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) Number of toll lanes.--Subsection (a) shall not 
        apply to any segment of highway on the Federal-aid 
        system described in that subsection that, as of the 
        date on which a toll is imposed on the segment, will 
        have the same number of non-toll lanes as were in 
        existence prior to that date.
            (2) High-occupancy vehicle lanes.--A high-occupancy 
        vehicle lane that is converted to a toll lane shall not 
        be subject to this section, and shall not be considered 
        to be a non-toll lane for purposes of determining 
        whether a highway will have fewer non-toll lanes than 
        prior to the date of imposition of the toll, if--
                    (A) high-occupancy vehicles occupied by the 
                number of passengers specified by the entity 
                operating the toll lane may use the toll lane 
                without paying a toll, unless otherwise 
                specified by the appropriate county, town, 
                municipal or other local government entity, or 
                public toll road or transit authority; or
                    (B) each high-occupancy vehicle lane that 
                was converted to a toll lane was constructed as 
                a temporary lane to be replaced by a toll lane 
                under a plan approved by the appropriate 
                county, town, municipal or other local 
                government entity, or public toll road or 
                transit authority.
    Sec. 125. (a) In the explanatory statement referenced in 
section 129 of division K of Public Law 110-161 (121 Stat. 
2388), the item relating to ``Route 5 Overpass and River 
Center, St. Mary's County, MD'' in the table of projects for 
such section 129 is deemed to be amended by striking ``Route 5 
Overpass and River Center, St. Mary's County, MD'' and 
inserting ``Safety Improvements and Traffic Calming Measures 
along Route 5 at St. Mary's County, MD''.
    (b) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``US 422 River Crossing Complex Project, 
King of Prussia, PA'' in the table of projects under the 
heading ``Transportation, Community, and System Preservation 
Program'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``US 422 River 
Crossing Complex Project, King of Prussia, PA'' and inserting 
``For closed loop signal control system and other improvements 
for Trooper Road in Lower Providence and West Norriton 
Townships, Montgomery County, PA''.
    (c) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``Improving the West Bank River Front, 
IL'' in the table of projects under the heading 
``Transportation, Community, and System Preservation Program'' 
is deemed to be amended by striking ``Improving the West Bank 
River Front, IL'' and inserting ``East Bank River Front and 
Bikeway Improvements, IL''.
    (d) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division K of Public Law 110-161 (121 Stat. 
2406), as amended by section 129(d) of division I of Public Law 
111-8 (123 Stat. 947), the item relating to ``Repair of Side 
Streets and Relocation of Water Mains resulting from rerouting 
of traffic and reconstruction of 159th Street in Harvey, IL'' 
in the table of projects under the heading ``Transportation, 
Community, and System Preservation Program'' is deemed to be 
amended by striking ``Repair of Side Streets and Relocation of 
Water Mains resulting from rerouting of traffic and 
reconstruction of 159th Street in Harvey, IL'' and inserting 
``Intersection Improvements on Crawford Avenue and 203rd Street 
in the Village of Olympia Fields, IL''.
    (e) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 129 
of division K of Public Law 110-161 (121 Stat. 2388), the item 
relating to ``Study Improvements to 109th Avenue, Winfield, 
IN'' in the table of projects for such section 129 is deemed to 
be amended by striking ``Winfield, IN'' and inserting ``Town of 
Winfield, City of Crown Point, Lake County, IN''.
    (f) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``Ronald Reagan Parkway (Middle and 
Southern segments), Boone County, IN'' in the table of projects 
under the heading ``Transportation, Community, and System 
Preservation Program'' is deemed to be amended by striking 
``Boone County'' and inserting ``Hendricks County''.
    (g) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``Onville Road Intersection and Road-
Widening Project, Prince William County, VA'' in the table of 
projects under the heading ``Federal Lands'' is deemed to be 
amended by striking ``Prince William'' and inserting 
``Stafford''.
    (h) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``U.S. 59/Alabama Grade Separation 
Project, St. Joseph, MO'' in the table of projects under the 
heading ``Interstate Maintenance Discretionary'' is deemed to 
be amended by striking ``U.S. 59/Alabama Grade Separation 
Project, St. Joseph, MO'' and inserting ``I-29 Interchange 
Reconstruction in St. Joseph, MO''.
    (i) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 186 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 947), 
the item relating to ``Decking and Sidewalk Replacement on the 
Central Avenue Overpass, South Charleston, WV'' in the table of 
projects under the heading ``Interstate Maintenance 
Discretionary'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Decking 
and Sidewalk Replacement on the Central Avenue Overpass, South 
Charleston, WV'' and inserting ``General Interstate 
Maintenance, WV''.
    (j) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 125 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 928), 
the item relating to ``Wapsi Great Western Line Trail, Mitchell 
County, IA'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Mitchell 
County'' and inserting ``Mitchell and Howard Counties''.
    (k) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 125 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 928), 
the item relating to ``Highway 169 Corridor Project 
Environmental Assessment, Preliminary Engineering and Planning, 
Humboldt, IA'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Corridor 
Project Environmental Assessment, Preliminary Engineering and 
Planning, Humboldt, IA'' and inserting ``Construction, Humboldt 
and Webster Counties, IA''.
    (l) In the explanatory statement referenced in section 125 
of title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 (123 Stat. 928), 
the item relating to ``Highway 53 Interchanges, WI'' is deemed 
to be amended by striking ``Interchanges'' and inserting 
``Intersections''.
    Sec. 126.  Item 4866A in the table contained in section 
1702 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-
59) is amended by striking ``Repair and restore'' and inserting 
``Removal of and enhancements around''.
    Sec. 127.  Item 3923 in the table contained in section 1702 
of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation 
Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-59) is amended 
by striking ``to 4 lanes from I-10 to West U.S. 90''.
    Sec. 128.  Funds made available for ``Brentwood Boulevard/
SR 4 Improvements, Brentwood, CA'' under section 129 of Public 
Law 110-161 shall be made available for ``John Muir Parkway 
Project, Brentwood, CA''.
    Sec. 129.  The table contained in section 1702 of the Safe, 
Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1256) is amended in item number 
3138 by striking the project description and inserting 
``Elimination of highway-railway crossings and rehabilitation 
of rail along the KO railroad to Osborne''.
    Sec. 130.  Funds made available for ``City of Tuscaloosa 
Downtown Revitalization Project--University Blvd and Greensboro 
Avenue, AL'' under section 125 of Public Law 111-8 shall be 
made available for ``City of Tuscaloosa Downtown Revitalization 
Project--University Blvd''.
    Sec. 131.  The table contained in section 1702 of the Safe, 
Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1256) is amended by striking the 
project description for item number 4573 and inserting the 
following: ``Design and construct interchange on I-15 in 
Mesquite''.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND PROGRAMS

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations 
and programs pursuant to section 31104(i) of title 49, United 
States Code, and sections 4127 and 4134 of Public Law 109-59, 
$239,828,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account), together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration, the sum of which shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation, execution or administration of programs, the 
obligations for which are in excess of $239,828,000, for 
``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' of which 
$8,543,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2012, is for the research and technology program and 
$1,000,000 shall be available for commercial motor vehicle 
operator's grants to carry out section 4134 of Public Law 109-
59: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, none of the funds under this heading for outreach and 
education shall be available for transfer: Provided further, 
That the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
transmit to Congress a report on March 30, 2010, and September 
30, 2010, on the agency's ability to meet its requirement to 
conduct compliance reviews on high-risk carriers.

                      MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

                         (including rescission)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
sections 31102, 31104(a), 31106, 31107, 31109, 31309, 31313 of 
title 49, United States Code, and sections 4126 and 4128 of 
Public Law 109-59, $310,070,000, to be derived from the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs, the obligations for which are in excess of 
$310,070,000, for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''; of which 
$212,070,000 shall be available for the motor carrier safety 
assistance program to carry out sections 31102 and 31104(a) of 
title 49, United States Code; $25,000,000 shall be available 
for the commercial driver's license improvements program to 
carry out section 31313 of title 49, United States Code; 
$32,000,000 shall be available for the border enforcement 
grants program to carry out section 31107 of title 49, United 
States Code; $5,000,000 shall be available for the performance 
and registration information system management program to carry 
out sections 31106(b) and 31109 of title 49, United States 
Code; $25,000,000 shall be available for the commercial vehicle 
information systems and networks deployment program to carry 
out section 4126 of Public Law 109-59; $3,000,000 shall be 
available for the safety data improvement program to carry out 
section 4128 of Public Law 109-59; and $8,000,000 shall be 
available for the commercial driver's license information 
system modernization program to carry out section 31309(e) of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available for the motor carrier safety assistance 
program, $29,000,000 shall be available for audits of new 
entrant motor carriers: Provided further, That $1,610,661 in 
unobligated balances are permanently rescinded.

                          MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY

                          (highway trust fund)

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in prior 
appropriations Acts, $6,415,501 in unobligated balances are 
permanently rescinded.

                 NATIONAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PROGRAM

                          (highway trust fund)

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in prior 
appropriations Acts, $3,232,639 in unobligated balances are 
permanently rescinded.

 administrative provision--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 135.  Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall 
be subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 
350 of Public Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28, 
including that the Secretary submit a report to the House and 
Senate Appropriations Committees annually on the safety and 
security of transportation into the United States by Mexico-
domiciled motor carriers.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
Secretary, with respect to traffic and highway safety under 
subtitle C of title X of Public Law 109-59 and chapter 301 and 
part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, 
$140,427,000, of which $35,543,000 shall remain available 
through September 30, 2011: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, 
finalize, or implement any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 
of title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations any requirement 
pertaining to a grading standard that is different from the 
three grading standards (treadwear, traction, and temperature 
resistance) already in effect.

                        OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403, $105,500,000 to be derived from 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the total obligations for which, in 
fiscal year 2010, are in excess of $105,500,000 for programs 
authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403: Provided further, That within 
the $105,500,000 obligation limitation for operations and 
research, $26,908,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2011 and shall be in addition to the amount of any 
limitation imposed on obligations for future years.

                        NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out chapter 
303 of title 49, United States Code, $4,000,000, to be derived 
from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the total obligations 
for which, in fiscal year 2010, are in excess of $4,000,000 for 
the National Driver Register authorized under such chapter.

                 NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER MODERNIZATION

    For an additional amount for the ``National Driver 
Register'' as authorized by chapter 303 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,350,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2011: Provided, That the funding made available under this 
heading shall be used to carry out the modernization of the 
National Driver Register.

                     HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 406, 408, and 410 and 
sections 2001(a)(11), 2009, 2010, and 2011 of Public Law 109-
59, to remain available until expended, $619,500,000 to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account): Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2010, are in 
excess of $619,500,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 
402, 405, 406, 408, and 410 and sections 2001(a)(11), 2009, 
2010, and 2011 of Public Law 109-59, of which $235,000,000 
shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402; 
$25,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant Protection Incentive 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $124,500,000 shall be for 
``Safety Belt Performance Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 406, and 
such obligation limitation shall remain available until 
September 30, 2011 in accordance with subsection (f) of such 
section 406 and shall be in addition to the amount of any 
limitation imposed on obligations for such grants for future 
fiscal years; $34,500,000 shall be for ``State Traffic Safety 
Information System Improvements'' under 23 U.S.C. 408; 
$139,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving 
Countermeasures Incentive Grant Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 410; 
$18,500,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' under 
section 2001(a)(11) of Public Law 109-59; $29,000,000 shall be 
for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under section 2009 
of Public Law 109-59; $7,000,000 shall be for ``Motorcyclist 
Safety'' under section 2010 of Public Law 109-59; and 
$7,000,000 shall be for ``Child Safety and Child Booster Seat 
Safety Incentive Grants'' under section 2011 of Public Law 109-
59: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for 
office furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private 
buildings or structures: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 ``Alcohol-
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available 
for technical assistance to the States: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $750,000 of the funds made available for the 
``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' shall be available for 
the evaluation required under section 2009(f) of Public Law 
109-59.

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY 
                             ADMINISTRATION

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 140.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
limitation on the use of funds made available under section 403 
of title 23, United States Code, an additional $130,000 shall 
be made available to the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, out of the amount limited for section 402 of 
title 23, United States Code, to pay for travel and related 
expenses for State management reviews and to pay for core 
competency development training and related expenses for 
highway safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs 
of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in 
this Act shall not apply to obligations for which obligation 
authority was made available in previous public laws for 
multiple years but only to the extent that the obligation 
authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  Of the amounts made available under the heading 
``Operations and Research (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust 
Fund)'' in prior appropriations Acts, $2,299,000 in unobligated 
balances are permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 143.  Of the amounts made available under the heading 
``Highway Traffic Safety Grants (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust 
Fund)'' in prior appropriations Acts, $14,004,000 in 
unobligated balances are permanently rescinded.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         SAFETY AND OPERATIONS

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, $172,270,000, of 
which $12,300,000 shall remain available until expended.

                   RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and 
development, $37,613,000, to remain available until expended.

       RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT FINANCING PROGRAM

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to 
the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations 
pursuant to section 512 of the Railroad Revitalization and 
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, 
in such amounts and at such times as may be necessary to pay 
any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee of the principal 
amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of such 
Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 
502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the 
credit risk premium during fiscal year 2010.

              RAIL LINE RELOCATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 20154 of 
title 49, United States Code, $34,532,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                   RAILROAD SAFETY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 20158 of 
title 49, United States Code, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That to be eligible for assistance 
under this heading, an entity need not have developed plans 
required under subsection 20156(e)(2) of title 49, United 
States Code, and section 20157 of such title.

    CAPITAL ASSISTANCE FOR HIGH SPEED RAIL CORRIDORS AND INTERCITY 
                         PASSENGER RAIL SERVICE

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants 
for high-speed rail projects as authorized under section 26106 
of title 49, United States Code, capital investment grants to 
support intercity passenger rail service as authorized under 
section 24406 of title 49, United States Code, and congestion 
grants as authorized under section 24105 of title 49, United 
States Code, and to enter into cooperative agreements for these 
purposes as authorized, $2,500,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That $50,000,000 of funds provided 
under this paragraph are available to the Administrator of the 
Federal Railroad Administration to fund the award and oversight 
by the Administrator of grants and cooperative agreements for 
intercity and high-speed rail: Provided further, That up to 
$30,000,000 of the funds provided under this paragraph are 
available to the Administrator for the purposes of conducting 
research and demonstrating technologies supporting the 
development of high-speed rail in the United States, including 
the demonstration of next-generation rolling stock fleet 
technology and the implementation of the Rail Cooperative 
Research Program authorized by section 24910 of title 49, 
United States Code: Provided further, That up to $50,000,000 of 
the funds provided under this paragraph may be used for 
planning activities that lead directly to the development of a 
passenger rail corridor investment plan consistent with the 
requirements established by the Administrator or a state rail 
plan consistent with chapter 227 of title 49, United States 
Code: Provided further, That the Secretary may retain a portion 
of the funds made available for planning activities under the 
previous proviso to facilitate the preparation of a service 
development plan and related environmental impact statement for 
high-speed corridors located in multiple States: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall issue interim guidance to 
applicants covering application procedures and administer the 
grants provided under this heading pursuant to that guidance 
until final regulations are issued: Provided further, That not 
less than 85 percent of the funds provided under this heading 
shall be for cooperative agreements that lead to the 
development of entire segments or phases of intercity or high-
speed rail corridors: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall submit to Congress the national rail plan required by 
section 103(j) of title 49, United States Code, no later than 
September 15, 2010: Provided further, That at least 30 days 
prior to issuing a letter of intent or cooperative agreement 
pursuant to Section 24402(f) of title 49, United States Code, 
for a major corridor development program, the Secretary shall 
provide to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
written notification consisting of a business and public 
investment case for the proposed corridor program which shall 
include: a comprehensive analysis of the monetary and non-
monetary costs and benefits of the corridor development 
program; an assessment of ridership, passenger travel time 
reductions, congestion relief benefits, environmental benefits, 
economic benefits, and other public benefits; operating 
financial forecasts for the program; a full capital cost 
estimation for the entire project, including the amount, source 
and security of non-Federal funds to complete the project; a 
summary of the grants management plan and an evaluation of the 
grantee's ability to sustain the project: Provided further, 
That the Federal share payable of the costs for which a grant 
or cooperative agreements is made under this heading shall not 
exceed 80 percent: Provided further, That in addition to the 
provisions of title 49, United States Code, that apply to each 
of the individual programs funded under this heading, 
subsections 24402(a)(2), 24402(f), 24402(i), and 24403(a) and 
(c) of title 49, United States Code, shall also apply to the 
provision of funds provided under this heading: Provided 
further, That a project need not be in a State rail plan 
developed under Chapter 227 of title 49, United States Code, to 
be eligible for assistance under this heading: Provided 
further, That recipients of grants under this paragraph shall 
conduct all procurement transactions using such grant funds in 
a manner that provides full and open competition, as determined 
by the Secretary, in compliance with existing labor agreements.

    OPERATING GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make quarterly 
grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for the 
operation of intercity passenger rail, as authorized by section 
101 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 
2008 (division B of Public Law 110-432), $563,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall not make the grants for the third and fourth quarter of 
the fiscal year available to the Corporation until an Inspector 
General who is a member of the Council of the Inspectors 
General on Integrity and Efficiency determines that the 
Corporation and the Corporation's Inspector General have agreed 
upon a set of policies and procedures for interacting with each 
other that are consistent with the letter and the spirit of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended: Provided further, 
That 1 year after such determination is made, the Council of 
the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency shall 
appoint another member to evaluate the current operational 
independence of the Amtrak Inspector General: Provided further, 
That the Corporation shall reimburse each Inspector General for 
all costs incurred in conducting the determination and the 
evaluation required by the preceding two provisos: Provided 
further, That the amounts available under this paragraph shall 
be available for the Secretary to approve funding to cover 
operating losses for the Corporation only after receiving and 
reviewing a grant request for each specific train route: 
Provided further, That each such grant request shall be 
accompanied by a detailed financial analysis, revenue 
projection, and capital expenditure projection justifying the 
Federal support to the Secretary's satisfaction: Provided 
further, That not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
Act, the Corporation shall transmit to the Secretary, the 
Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, and the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a plan to achieve 
savings through operating efficiencies including, but not 
limited to, modifications to food and beverage service and 
first class service: Provided further, That the Inspector 
General of the Department of Transportation shall provide 
semiannual reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on the estimated savings accrued as a result of 
all operational reforms instituted by the Corporation and 
estimations of possible future savings: Provided further, That 
not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Corporation shall transmit, in electronic format, to the 
Secretary, the Inspector General of Department of 
Transportation, the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation the annual budget and business plan and the 
5-Year Financial Plan for fiscal year 2010 required under 
section 204 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement 
Act of 2008: Provided further, That the budget, business plan, 
and the 5-Year Financial Plan shall also include a separate 
accounting of ridership, revenues, and capital and operating 
expenses for the Northeast Corridor; commuter service; long-
distance Amtrak service; State-supported service; each 
intercity train route, including Autotrain; and commercial 
activities including contract operations: Provided further, 
That the budget, business plan and the 5-Year Financial Plan 
shall include a description of work to be funded, along with 
cost estimates and an estimated timetable for completion of the 
projects covered by these plans: Provided further, That the 
Corporation shall provide semiannual reports in electronic 
format regarding the pending business plan, which shall 
describe the work completed to date, any changes to the 
business plan, and the reasons for such changes, and shall 
identify all sole source contract awards which shall be 
accompanied by a justification as to why said contract was 
awarded on a sole-source basis, as well as progress against the 
milestones and target dates of the 2009 performance improvement 
plan: Provided further, That the Corporation's budget, business 
plan, 5-Year Financial Plan, and all subsequent supplemental 
plans shall be displayed on the Corporation's website within a 
reasonable timeframe following their submission to the 
appropriate entities: Provided further, That these plans shall 
be accompanied by a comprehensive fleet plan for all Amtrak 
rolling stock which shall address the Corporation's detailed 
plans and timeframes for the maintenance, refurbishment, 
replacement, and expansion of the Amtrak fleet: Provided 
further, That said fleet plan shall establish year-specific 
goals and milestones and discuss potential, current, and 
preferred financing options for all such activities: Provided 
further, That none of the funds under this heading may be 
obligated or expended until the Corporation agrees to continue 
abiding by the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 9, and 11 of 
the summary of conditions for the direct loan agreement of June 
28, 2002, in the same manner as in effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That concurrent with 
the President's budget request for fiscal year 2011, the 
Corporation shall submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a budget request for fiscal year 2011 in similar 
format and substance to those submitted by executive agencies 
of the Federal Government.

  CAPITAL AND DEBT SERVICE GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER 
                              CORPORATION

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for capital 
investments as authorized by section 101(c) of the Passenger 
Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (division B of 
Public Law 110-432), $1,001,625,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $264,000,000 shall be for debt 
service obligations as authorized by section 102 of such Act: 
Provided, That grants after an initial allocation of 
$200,000,000 shall be provided to the Corporation only on a 
reimbursable basis: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the funds provided under 
this heading to fund the costs of project management oversight 
of capital projects funded by grants provided under this 
heading, as authorized by subsection 101(d) of division B of 
Public Law 110-432: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
approve funding for capital expenditures, including advance 
purchase orders of materials, for the Corporation only after 
receiving and reviewing a grant request for each specific 
capital project justifying the Federal support to the 
Secretary's satisfaction: Provided further, That none of the 
funds under this heading may be used to subsidize operating 
losses of the Corporation: Provided further, That none of the 
funds under this heading may be used for capital projects not 
approved by the Secretary of Transportation or on the 
Corporation's fiscal year 2010 business plan: Provided further, 
That in addition to the project management oversight funds 
authorized under section 101(d) of division B of Public Law 
110-432, the Secretary may retain up to an additional one-half 
of one percent of the funds provided under this heading to fund 
expenses associated with implementing section 212 of division B 
of Public Law 110-432, including the amendments made by section 
212 to section 24905 of title 49, United States Code.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

    Sec. 151.  The Secretary may purchase promotional items of 
nominal value for use in public outreach activities to 
accomplish the purposes of 49 U.S.C. 20134: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall prescribe guidelines for the administration of 
such purchases and use.
    Sec. 152.  Hereafter, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds provided in this Act for the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation shall immediately cease to be available 
to said Corporation in the event that the Corporation contracts 
to have services provided at or from any location outside the 
United States. For purposes of this section, the word 
``services'' shall mean any service that was, as of July 1, 
2006, performed by a full-time or part-time Amtrak employee 
whose base of employment is located within the United States.
    Sec. 153.  The Secretary of Transportation may receive and 
expend cash, or receive and utilize spare parts and similar 
items, from non-United States Government sources to repair 
damages to or replace United States Government owned automated 
track inspection cars and equipment as a result of third party 
liability for such damages, and any amounts collected under 
this section shall be credited directly to the Safety and 
Operations account of the Federal Railroad Administration, and 
shall remain available until expended for the repair, operation 
and maintenance of automated track inspection cars and 
equipment in connection with the automated track inspection 
program.
    Sec. 154.  The Administrator of the Federal Railroad 
Administration shall submit a report on April 1, 2010, and 
quarterly reports thereafter, to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the Administrator's 
efforts at improving the on-time performance of Amtrak 
intercity rail service operating on non-Amtrak owned property. 
Such reports shall compare the most recent actual on-time 
performance data to pre-established on-time performance goals 
that the Administrator shall set for each rail service, 
identified by route. Such reports shall also include whatever 
other information and data regarding the on-time performance of 
Amtrak trains the Administrator deems to be appropriate.
    Sec. 155.  In the Explanatory Statement referenced in 
division I of Public Law 111-8 under the heading Railroad 
Research and Development the item relating to ``San Gabriel 
trench grade separation project, Alameda Corridor, CA'' is 
deemed to be amended by inserting ``Alameda Corridor East 
Construction Authority Grade Separations, CA.''.
    Sec. 156.  In the Explanatory Statement referenced in 
division K of Public Law 110-161 under the heading Rail Line 
Relocation and Improvement Program the item relating to ``Mt. 
Vernon railroad cut, NY'' is deemed to be amended by inserting 
``Rail Line and Station Improvement and Rehabilitation, Mount 
Vernon, NY.''.
    Sec. 157.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds provided in Public Law 111-8 for ``Lincoln Avenue Grade 
Separation, Port of Tacoma, Washington'' shall be made 
available for this project as therein described.
    Sec. 158.  The Administrator of the Federal Railroad 
Administration, in cooperation with the Illinois Department of 
Transportation (IDOT), may provide technical and financial 
assistance to IDOT and local and county officials to study the 
feasibility of 10th Street, or other alternatives, in 
Springfield, Illinois, as a route for consolidated freight rail 
operations and/or combined freight and passenger rail 
operations within the city of Springfield.
    Sec. 159. (a) Amtrak Security Evaluation.--No later than 
180 days after the enactment of this Act, Amtrak, in 
consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security 
(Transportation Security Administration), shall submit a report 
to Congress that contains--
      (1) a comprehensive, system-wide, security evaluation; 
and
      (2) proposed guidance and procedures necessary to 
implement a new checked firearms program.
      (b) Development and Implementation of Guidance and 
Procedures.--
      (1) In General.--Not later than one year after the 
enactment of this Act, Amtrak, in consultation with the 
Assistant Secretary, shall develop and implement guidance and 
procedures to carry out the duties and responsibilities of 
firearm storage and carriage in checked baggage cars and at 
Amtrak stations that accept checked baggage.
      (2) Scope.--The guidance and procedures developed under 
paragraph (1) shall--
      (A) permit Amtrak passengers holding a ticket for a 
specific Amtrak route to place an unloaded firearm or starter 
pistol in a checked bag on such route if--
      (i) the Amtrak station accepts checked baggage for such 
route;
      (ii) the passenger declares to Amtrak, either orally or 
in writing, at the time the reservation is made or not later 
than 24 hours before departure, that the firearm will be placed 
in his or her bag and will be unloaded;
      (iii) the firearm is in a hard-sided container;
      (iv) such container is locked; and
      (v) only the passenger has the key or combination for 
such container;
      (B) permit Amtrak passengers holding a ticket for a 
specific Amtrak route to place small arms ammunition for 
personal use ina checked bag on such route if the ammunition is 
securely packed--
      (i) in fiber, wood, or metal boxes; or
      (ii) in other packaging specifically designed to carry 
small amunt of ammunition; and
      (C) include any other measures needed to ensure the 
safety and security of Amtrak employees, passengers, and 
infrastructure, including--
      (i) requiring inspections of any container that carries a 
fiream or ammunition; and
      (ii) the temporary suspension of firearm carriage service 
if credible intelligence information indicates a threat related 
to the national rail system or specific routes or trains.
      (c) Definitions.--
      (1) For purposes oft his section, the term ``checked 
baggage'' refers to baggage trasported that is accessiable only 
to select Amtrak employees.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal 
Transit Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, $98,911,000: Provided, That of 
the funds available under this heading, not to exceed 
$1,809,000 shall be available for travel: Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided or limited in this Act may be 
used to create a permanent office of transit security under 
this heading: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading not to exceed $75,000 shall be 
paid from appropriations made available by this Act and 
provided to the Department of Transportation Office of 
Inspector General through reimbursement to conduct the annual 
audits of financial statements in accordance with section 3521 
of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That upon 
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2011 President's 
budget, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to 
Congress the annual report on new starts, including proposed 
allocations of funds for fiscal year 2011.

                         FORMULA AND BUS GRANTS

                  (liquidation of contract authority)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5308, 5309, 5310, 5311, 
5316, 5317, 5320, 5335, 5339, and 5340 and section 3038 of 
Public Law 105-178, as amended, $9,400,000,000 to be derived 
from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds available 
for the implementation or execution of programs authorized 
under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5308, 5309, 5310, 5311, 5316, 5317, 
5320, 5335, 5339, and 5340 and section 3038 of Public Law 105-
178, as amended, shall not exceed total obligations of 
$8,343,171,000 in fiscal year 2010.

                RESEARCH AND UNIVERSITY RESEARCH CENTERS

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5306, 5312-
5315, 5322, and 5506, $65,670,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That $10,000,000 is available to carry out 
the transit cooperative research program under section 5313 of 
title 49, United States Code, $4,300,000 is available for the 
National Transit Institute under section 5315 of title 49, 
United States Code, and $7,000,000 is available for university 
transportation centers program under section 5506 of title 49, 
United States Code: Provided further, That $44,370,000 is 
available to carry out national research programs under 
sections 5312, 5313, 5314, and 5322 of title 49, United States 
Code: Provided further, That of the funds available to carry 
out section 5312 of title 49, United States Code, $5,000,000 
shall be available to the Secretary to develop standards for 
asset management plans, provide technical assistance to 
recipients engaged in the development or implementation of an 
asset management plan, improve data collection through the 
National Transit Database, and conduct a pilot program designed 
to identify the best practices of asset management.

                       CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 5309 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which no less than $200,000,000 is for 
section 5309(e) of such title: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the Department of Transportation Office of 
Inspector General from funds set aside for the execution of 
oversight contracts pursuant to section 5327(c) of title 49, 
United States Code, for costs associated with audits and 
investigations of transit-related issues, including reviews of 
new fixed guideway systems.

       GRANTS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTIONS

    For grants to public transit agencies for capital 
investments that will reduce the energy consumption or 
greenhouse gas emissions of their public transportation 
systems, $75,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 
2012: Provided, That priority shall be given to projects based 
on the total energy savings that are projected to result from 
the investments, and the projected energy savings as a 
percentage of the total energy usage of the public transit 
agency: Provided further, That the Secretary shall public 
criteria on which to base the competition for any grants 
awarded under this heading no sooner than 90 days after the 
enactment of this Act, require applications for funding 
provided under this heading to be submitted no sooner than 120 
days after the publication of such criteria, and announce all 
projects selected to be funded from funds provided under this 
heading no sooner than September 15, 2010.

      GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
Authority as authorized under section 601 of division B of 
Public Law 110-432, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary shall approve grants for 
capital and preventive maintenance expenditures for the 
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority only after 
receiving and reviewing a request for each specific project: 
Provided further, That prior to approving such grants, the 
Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority has placed the highest priority on those 
investments that will improve the safety of the system, 
including but not limited to fixing the track signal system, 
replacing the 1000 series cars, installing guarded turnouts, 
buying equipment for wayside worker protection, and installing 
rollback protection on cars that are not equipped with this 
safety feature.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs 
of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any 
authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for 
obligation, or to any other authority previously made available 
for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated or limited by this Act under ``Federal 
Transit Administration, Capital Investment Grants'' and for bus 
and bus facilities under ``Federal Transit Administration, 
Formula and Bus Grants'' for projects specified in this Act or 
identified in reports accompanying this Act not obligated by 
September 30, 2012, and other recoveries, shall be directed to 
projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for which 
they were originally provided.
    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
funds appropriated before October 1, 2009, under any section of 
chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, that remain 
available for expenditure, may be transferred to and 
administered under the most recent appropriation heading for 
any such section.
    Sec. 163.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
unobligated funds made available for new fixed guideway system 
projects under the heading ``Federal Transit Administration, 
Capital investment grants'' in any appropriations Act prior to 
this Act may be used during this fiscal year to satisfy 
expenses incurred for such projects.
    Sec. 164.  During fiscal year 2010, each Federal Transit 
Administration grant for a project that involves the 
acquisition or rehabilitation of a bus to be used in public 
transportation shall be funded for 90 percent of the net 
capital costs of a biodiesel bus or a factory-installed or 
retrofitted hybrid electric propulsion system and any equipment 
related to such a system: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
have the discretion to determine, through practicable 
administrative procedures, the costs attributable to the system 
and related-equipment.
    Sec. 165.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
unobligated funds or recoveries under section 5309 of title 49, 
United States Code, that are available to the Secretary of 
Transportation for reallocation shall be directed to projects 
eligible to use the funds for the purposes for which they were 
originally provided.
    Sec. 166. (a) In the explanatory statement referenced in 
section 186 of title I of division K of Public Law 110-161 (121 
Stat. 2406), the item relating to ``Broward County Southwest 
Transit Facility'' in the table of projects under the heading 
``Bus and Bus 
Facilities'' is deemed to be amended by 
striking ``Southwest'' and inserting ``Ravenswood''.
    (b) The explanatory statement referenced in section 186 of 
title I of division I of Public Law 111-8 for ``Alternatives 
analysis'' under ``Federal Transit Administration-Formula and 
Bus Grants'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Hudson-
Bergen Light Rail Extension Route 440, North Bergen, NJ'' and 
inserting ``Hudson-Bergen Light Rail Extension Route 440, 
Jersey City, NJ''.
    (c) Funds made available for the ``Phoenix/Regional Heavy 
Maintenance Facility, AZ'', ``Dial-a-Ride facility, Phoenix, 
AZ'' and the ``Phoenix Regional Heavy Bus Maintenance Facility, 
Arizona'' through the Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Acts for Fiscal Years 2004, 2005 and 2008 that 
remain unobligated or unexpended shall be made available to the 
East Baseline Park-and-Ride Facility in Phoenix, Arizona.
    Sec. 167.  Funds made available for Alaska or Hawaii ferry 
boats or ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
5309(m)(2)(B) may be used to construct new vessels and 
facilities, or to improve existing vessels and facilities, 
including both the passenger and vehicle-related elements of 
such vessels and facilities, and for repair facilities: 
Provided, That not more than $4,000,000 of the funds made 
available pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be used by 
the City and County of Honolulu to operate a passenger ferry 
boat service demonstration project to test the viability of 
different intra-island ferry boat routes and technologies.
    Sec. 168.  In determining the local share of the cost of 
the project authorized to be carried out under section 
3043(c)(70) of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-
59; 119 Stat. 1644) for purposes of the rating process for New 
Starts projects, the Secretary shall consider any portion of 
the corridor advanced entirely with non-Federal funds.
    Sec. 169.  The Secretary of Transportation shall provide 
recommendations to Congress, including legislative proposals, 
on how to strengthen its role in regulating the safety of 
transit agencies operating heavy rail on fixed guideway: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall include actions the 
Department of Transportation will take and what additional 
legislative authorities it may need in order to fully implement 
recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board 
directed at the Federal Transit Administration, including but 
not limited to recommendations related to crashworthiness, 
emergency access and egress, event recorders, and hours of 
service: Provided further, That the Secretary shall transmit to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs a report 
outlining these recommendations and a plan for their 
implementation by the Department of Transportation no later 
than 45 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall not reallocate any funding 
made available for items 523, 267, and 131 of section 3044 of 
the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation 
Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-59).
      Sec. 171. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 2010, the total estimated amount of future 
obligations of the Government and contingent commitments to 
incur obligations covered by all outstanding full funding grant 
agreements entered into on or before September 30, 2009, and 
all outstanding letters of intent and early systems work 
agreements under subsection 5309(g) of Title 49, United States 
Code, for major new fixed guideway capital projects may be not 
more than the sum of the amount authorized under subsections 
5338(a)(3)(iv) and 5338(c) of such title for such projects and 
an amount equivalent to the last 3 fiscal years of funding 
allocated under subsections 5309(m)(1)(A) and (m)(2)(A)(ii) of 
such title, for such projects less an amount the Secretary 
reasonable estimates is necessary for grants under subsection 
5309(b)(1) of such title for those of such projects that are 
not covered by a letter or agreement: Provided, That the 
Secretary may enter into full funding grant agreements under 
subsection 5309(g)(2) of such title for major new fixed 
guideway capital projects that contain contingent commitments 
to incur obligations in such amounts as the Secretary 
determines are appropriate.
    Sec. 172.  None of the funds provided or limited under this 
Act may be used to enforce regulations related to charter bus 
service under part 604 of title 49, Code of Federal 
Regulations, for any transit agency who during fiscal year 2008 
was both initially granted a 60-day period to come into 
compliance with part 604, and then was subsequently granted an 
exception from said part.
    Sec. 173.  Hereafter, for interstate multi-modal projects 
which are in Interstate highway corridors, the Secretary shall 
base the rating under section 5309(d) of title 49, United 
States Code, of the non-New Starts share of the public 
transportation element of the project on the percentage of non-
New Starts funds in the unified finance plan for the multi-
modal project: Provided, That the Secretary shall base the 
accounting of local matching funds on the total amount of all 
local funds incorporated in the unified finance plan for the 
multi-modal project for the purposes of funding under chapter 
53 of title 49, United States Code and title 23, United States 
Code: Provided further, That the Secretary shall evaluate the 
justification for the project under section 5309(d) of title 
49, United States Code, including cost effectiveness, on the 
public transportation costs and public transportation benefits.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of 
funds and borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments 
without regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by 
section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set 
forth in the Corporation's budget for the current fiscal year.

                       OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal of those portions of the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway Development Corporation, $32,324,000, to be derived from 
the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-
662.

                        Maritime Administration

                       MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the 
United States, $174,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        OPERATIONS AND TRAINING

    For necessary expenses of operations and training 
activities authorized by law, $149,750,000, of which 
$11,240,000 shall remain available until expended for 
maintenance and repair of training ships at State Maritime 
Academies, and of which $15,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for capital improvements at the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy, and of which $59,057,000 shall be 
available for operations at the United States Merchant Marine 
Academy: Provided, That amounts apportioned for the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy shall be available only upon 
allotments made personally by the Secretary of Transportation 
or the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs: Provided 
further, That the Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent and the 
Director of the Office of Resource Management of the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy may not be allotment holders for 
the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the 
Administrator of Maritime Administration shall hold all 
allotments made by the Secretary of Transportation or the 
Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs under the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That 50 percent of the funding made 
available for the United States Merchant Marine Academy under 
this heading shall be available only after the Secretary, in 
consultation with the Superintendent and the Maritime 
Administration, completes a plan detailing by program or 
activity and by object class how such funding will be expended 
at the Academy, and this plan is submitted to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                             SHIP DISPOSAL

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete 
vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime 
Administration, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under 
section 3508 of Public Law 110-417 or section 54101 of title 
46, United States Code, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That to be considered for assistance, a 
qualified shipyard shall submit an application for assistance 
no later than 60 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That from applications submitted under the previous 
proviso, the Secretary of Transportation shall make grants no 
later than 120 days after enactment of this Act in such amounts 
as the Secretary determines: Provided further, That not to 
exceed 2 percent of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be available for necessary costs of grant administration.

          MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI) PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized, 
$9,000,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration.

           ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

    Sec. 175.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
the Maritime Administration is authorized to furnish utilities 
and services and make necessary repairs in connection with any 
lease, contract, or occupancy involving Government property 
under control of the Maritime Administration, and payments 
received therefor shall be credited to the appropriation 
charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental payments 
under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into 
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    Sec. 176.  Section 51314 of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended in subsection (b) by inserting at the end ``Such 
fees shall be credited to the Maritime Administration's 
Operations and Training appropriation, to remain available 
until expended, for those expenses directly related to the 
purposes of the fees. Fees collected in excess of actual 
expenses may be refunded to the Midshipmen through a mechanism 
approved by the Secretary. The Academy shall maintain a 
separate and detailed accounting of fee revenue and all 
associated expenses.''.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and 
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, $21,132,000, of 
which $639,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund: 
Provided, That $1,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Pipeline 
Safety'' in order to fund ``Pipeline Safety Information Grants 
to Communities'' as authorized under section 60130 of title 49, 
United States Code.

                       HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials 
safety functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $37,994,000, of which $1,699,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That up to 
$800,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be 
deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting 
receipts: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, for reports publication and dissemination, and for 
travel expenses incurred in performance of hazardous materials 
exemptions and approvals functions.

                            PIPELINE SAFETY

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the 
pipeline safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a 
pipeline safety program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and 
to discharge the pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil 
Pollution Act of 1990, $105,239,000, of which $18,905,000 shall 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2012; and of which 
$86,334,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of 
which $47,332,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2012: Provided, That not less than $1,048,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be for the one-call State 
grant program.

                     EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5128(b), 
$188,000, to be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That 
not more than $28,318,000 shall be made available for 
obligation in fiscal year 2010 from amounts made available by 
49 U.S.C. 5116(I) and 5128(b)-(c): Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(I), 5128(b), or 
5128(c) shall be made available for obligation by individuals 
other than the Secretary of Transportation, or his designee.

           Research and Innovative Technology Administration

                        RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses of the Research and Innovative 
Technology Administration, $13,007,000, of which $6,036,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, to be available 
until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources 
for expenses incurred for training.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
to carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, as amended, $75,114,000: Provided, That the Inspector 
General shall have all necessary authority, in carrying out the 
duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5 
U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, including 
false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the 
Department: Provided further, That the funds made available 
under this heading shall be used to investigate, pursuant to 
section 41712 of title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or 
deceptive practices and unfair methods of competition by 
domestic and foreign air carriers and ticket agents; and (2) 
the compliance of domestic and foreign air carriers with 
respect to item (1) of this proviso.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $29,066,000: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of 
the Surface Transportation Board shall be credited to this 
appropriation as offsetting collections and used for necessary 
and authorized expenses under this heading: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2010, to result in 
a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $27,816,000.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180.  During the current fiscal year applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be 
available for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability 
insurance for motor vehicles operating in foreign countries on 
official department business; and uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the 
Department of Transportation shall be available for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for an 
Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 182.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and 
Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation: 
Provided, That none of the personnel covered by this provision 
may be assigned on temporary detail outside the Department of 
Transportation.
    Sec. 183.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
implement section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 184. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this 
Act shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 
U.S.C. 2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor 
vehicles in connection with a motor vehicle record as defined 
in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for 
a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State 
is in noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 185.  Funds received by the Federal Highway 
Administration, Federal Transit Administration, and Federal 
Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses 
incurred for training may be credited respectively to the 
Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' 
account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Research and 
University Research Centers'' account, and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, 
except for State rail safety inspectors participating in 
training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 186.  Funds provided or limited in this Act under the 
appropriate accounts within the Federal Highway Administration, 
the Federal Railroad Administration and the Federal Transit 
Administration shall be for the eligible programs, projects and 
activities in the corresponding amounts identified in the 
committee report accompanying this Act for ``Ferry Boats and 
Ferry Terminal Facilities'', ``Federal Lands'', ``Interstate 
Maintenance Discretionary'', ``Transportation, Community and 
System Preservation Program'', ``Delta Region Transportation 
Development Program'', ``Rail Line Relocation and Improvement 
Program'', ``Rail-highway crossing hazard eliminations'', 
``Capital Investment Grants'', ``Alternatives analysis'', and 
``Bus and bus facilities''.
    Sec. 187.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, 
rule or regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to allow the issuer of any preferred stock 
heretofore sold to the Department to redeem or repurchase such 
stock upon the payment to the Department of an amount 
determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 188.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department 
of Transportation may be used to make a grant unless the 
Secretary of Transportation notifies the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full business days 
before any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full 
funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is 
announced by the department or its modal administrations from: 
(1) any discretionary grant program of the Federal Highway 
Administration including the emergency relief program; (2) the 
airport improvement program of the Federal Aviation 
Administration; (3) any grant from the Federal Railroad 
Administration; or (4) any program of the Federal Transit 
Administration other than the formula grants and fixed guideway 
modernization programs: Provided, That the Secretary gives 
concurrent notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
emergency relief program: Provided further, That no 
notification shall involve funds that are not available for 
obligation.
    Sec. 189.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees 
and other funds received by the Department of Transportation 
from travel management centers, charge card programs, the 
subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous sources are to 
be credited to appropriations of the Department of 
Transportation and allocated to elements of the Department of 
Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such funds 
shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 190.  Amounts made available in this or any other Act 
that the Secretary determines represent improper payments by 
the Department of Transportation to a third-party contractor 
under a financial assistance award, which are recovered 
pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by 
        the Department of Transportation in recovering improper 
        payments; and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in 
        recovering improper payments or contractor support in 
        the implementation of the Improper Payments Information 
        Act of 2002: Provided, That amounts in excess of that 
        required for paragraphs (1) and (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with 
                the appropriation from which the improper 
                payments were made, and shall be available for 
                the purposes and period for which such 
                appropriations are available; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains 
                available, shall be deposited in the Treasury 
                as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, 
                That prior to the transfer of any such recovery 
                to an appropriations account, the Secretary 
                shall notify to the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for 
                such transfer: Provided further, That for 
                purposes of this section, the term ``improper 
                payments'', has the same meaning as that 
                provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public Law 107-
                300.
    Sec. 191.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if 
any funds provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a 
reprogramming action that requires notice to be provided to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, said 
reprogramming action shall be approved or denied solely by the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That the Secretary may 
provide notice to other congressional committees of the action 
of the Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but 
not sooner than 30 days following the date on which the 
reprogramming action has been approved or denied by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 192.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface 
Transportation Board of the Department of Transportation to 
charge or collect any filing fee for rate complaints filed with 
the Board in an amount in excess of the amount authorized for 
district court civil suit filing fees under section 1914 of 
title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 193.  Notwithstanding section 3324 of Title 31, United 
States Code, in addition to authority provided by section 327 
of title 49, United States Code, the Department's Working 
Capital fund is hereby authorized to provide payments in 
advance to vendors that are necessary to carry out the Federal 
transit pass transportation fringe benefit program under 
Executive Order 13150 and section 3049 of Public Law 109-59: 
Provided, that the Department shall include adequate safeguards 
in the contract with the vendors to ensure timely and high 
quality performance under the contract.
    Sec. 194. (a) In General.--Section 127(a)(11) of title 23, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``that portion of 
the Maine Turnpike designated Route 95 and 495, and that 
portion of Interstate Route 95 from the southern terminus of 
the Maine Turnpike to the New Hampshire State line, laws 
(including regulations)'' and inserting ``all portions of the 
Interstate Highway System in the State, laws (including 
regulations)''.
    (b) Period of Effectiveness.--The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall be in effect during the 1-year period 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Reversion.--Effective as of the date that is 366 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, section 127(a)(11) of 
title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking ``all 
portions of the Interstate Highway System in the State, laws 
(including regulations)'' and inserting ``that portion of the 
Maine Turnpike designated Route 95 and 495, and that portion of 
Interstate Route 95 from the southern terminus of the Maine 
Turnpike to the New Hampshire State line, laws (including 
regulations)''.
    (d) Vermont Pilot Program.--Section 127(a) of title 23, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(13) Vermont pilot program.--
    ``(A) In general.--With respect to Interstate Routes 89, 
91, and 93 in the State of Vermont, laws (including 
regulations) of that State concerning vehicle weight 
limitations applicable to State highways other than the 
Interstate system shall be applicable in lieu of the 
requirement of this subsection.''
    (e) Period of Effectiveness for the Vermont Pilot 
Program.--The amendment made by subsection (d) shall be in 
effect during the 1-year period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (f) Reversion for the Vermont Pilot Program.--Effective as 
of the date that is 366 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, section 127(a) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended by striking paragraph (13).
    (g) Report on the Vermont Pilot Program.--Not later than 2 
years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the 
Secretary shall complete and submit to Congress a report on the 
effects of the pilot program under this paragraph on highway 
safety, bridge and road durability, commerce, truck volumes, 
and energy use within the State of Vermont.
    Sec. 195.  The Secretary shall initiate an independent and 
comprehensive study and analysis to supplement that authorized 
under section 108, division C, of Public Law 111-8: Provided, 
That the Department of Transportation shall work with and 
coordinate with the Departments of Energy, Commerce and 
Agriculture to develop a comprehensive understanding of the 
full value of river flow support to users in the Mississippi 
and Missouri Rivers: Provided further, That subjects of 
analysis shall include energy (including hydropower and 
generation cooling), and water transport (including water-
compelled rates, projected total transportation congestion 
considerations, transportation energy efficiency, air quality 
and carbon emissions) and water users (including the number and 
distribution of people, households, municipalities, and 
business throughout the Missouri and Mississippi River basins 
who use river water for multiple purposes): Provided further, 
That in addition to understanding current value, the Department 
is directed to work with appropriate Federal partners to 
develop recommendations on how to minimize impediments to 
growth and maximize water value of benefits related to energy 
production and efficiency, congestion relief, trade and 
transport efficiency, and air quality: Provided further, That 
the Department of Transportation shall provide its analysis and 
recommendations to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the White 
House, and the Congress: Provided further, That $2,000,000 is 
available until expended for such purposes.
    Sec. 196.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available under section 330 of the Fiscal Year 2002 
Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act (Public Law 107-87) for the Las Vegas, 
Nevada Monorail Project, funds made available under section 115 
of the Fiscal Year 2004 Transportation, Treasury and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act (Public Law 108-199) 
for the North Las Vegas Intermodal Transit Hub, and funds made 
available for the CATRAIL RTC Rail Project, Nevada in the 
Fiscal Year 2005 Transportation, Treasury, Independent Agencies 
and General Government Appropriations Act (Public Law 108-447), 
as well as any unexpended funds in the Federal Transit 
Administration grant numbers NV-03-0024 and NV-03-0027, shall 
be made available until expended to the Regional Transportation 
Commission of Southern Nevada for bus and bus-related projects 
and bus rapid transit projects: Provided, That the funds made 
available for a project in accordance with this section shall 
be administered under the terms and conditions set forth in 49 
U.S.C. 5307, to the extent applicable.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of 
Transportation Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                          Executive Direction

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive 
Direction, $26,855,000, of which not to exceed $4,619,000 shall 
be available for the immediate Office of the Secretary and 
Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $1,703,000 shall be available 
for the Office of Hearings and Appeals; not to exceed $778,000 
shall be available for the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization; not to exceed $727,000 shall be available 
for the immediate Office of the Chief Financial Officer; not to 
exceed $1,474,000 shall be available for the immediate Office 
of the General Counsel; not to exceed $2,912,000 shall be 
available to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations; not to exceed 
$3,996,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,218,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration; not to exceed $2,125,000 shall be available to 
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian 
Housing; not to exceed $1,781,000 shall be available to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and 
Development; not to exceed $3,497,000 shall be available to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing, Federal Housing 
Commissioner; not to exceed $1,097,000 shall be available to 
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy Development 
and Research; and not to exceed $928,000 shall be available to 
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and 
Equal Opportunity: Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to 
transfer funds appropriated for any office funded under this 
heading to any other office funded under this heading following 
the written notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That no appropriation for any 
office shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent 
by all such transfers: Provided further, That notice of any 
change in funding greater than 5 percent shall be submitted for 
prior approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
provide the Committees on Appropriations quarterly written 
notification regarding the status of pending congressional 
reports: Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide all 
signed reports required by Congress electronically: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made 
available under this paragraph for the immediate Office of the 
Secretary shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

               ADMINISTRATION, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT

    For necessary salaries and expenses for administration, 
operations and management for the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, $537,011,000, of which not to exceed 
$76,958,000 shall be available for the personnel compensation 
and benefits of the Office of Administration; not to exceed 
$9,623,000 shall be available for the personnel compensation 
and benefits of the Office of Departmental Operations and 
Coordination; not to exceed $51,275,000 shall be available for 
the personnel compensation and benefits of the Office of Field 
Policy and Management; not to exceed $14,649,000 shall be 
available for the personnel compensation and benefits of the 
Office of the Chief Procurement Officer; not to exceed 
$35,197,000 shall be available for the personnel compensation 
and benefits of the remaining staff in the Office of the Chief 
Financial Officer; not to exceed $89,062,000 shall be available 
for the personnel compensation and benefits of the remaining 
staff in the Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed 
$3,296,000 shall be available for the personnel compensation 
and benefits of the Office of Departmental Equal Employment 
Opportunity; not to exceed $1,393,000 shall be available for 
the personnel compensation and benefits for the Center for 
Faith-Based and Community Initiatives; not to exceed $2,400,000 
shall be available for the personnel compensation and benefits 
for the Office of Sustainability; not to exceed $3,288,000 
shall be available for the personnel compensation and benefits 
for the Office of Strategic Planning and Management; and not to 
exceed $249,870,000 shall be available for non-personnel 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: 
Provided, That, funds provided under this heading may be used 
for necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise 
provided for, including purchase of uniforms, or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading may be 
used for advertising and promotional activities that support 
the housing mission area: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for any office included in Administration, 
Operations and Management to any other office included in 
Administration, Operations and Management only after such 
transfer has been submitted to, and received prior written 
approval by, the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 10 percent by all such 
transfers.

                  Personnel Compensation and Benefits

                       PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Public and Indian Housing, $197,074,000.

                   COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Community Planning and Development mission 
area, $98,989,000.

                                HOUSING

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Housing, $374,887,000.

         OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of the Government National Mortgage Association, 
$11,095,000, to be derived from the GNMA guarantees of mortgage 
backed securities guaranteed loan receipt account.

                    POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Policy Development and Research, $21,138,000.

                   FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, 
$71,800,000.

            OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL

    For necessary personnel compensation and benefits expenses 
of the Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control, 
$7,151,000.

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-
based rental assistance authorized under the United States 
Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the 
Act'' herein), not otherwise provided for, $14,184,200,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be available on October 
1, 2009 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that will become available on 
October 1, 2009), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2010: Provided, That 
of the amounts made available under this heading are provided 
as follows:
            (1) $16,339,200,000 shall be available for renewals 
        of expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions 
        contracts (including renewals of enhanced vouchers 
        under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act) and including renewal of 
        other special purpose vouchers initially funded in 
        fiscal year 2008 and 2009 such as Family Unification, 
        Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Vouchers and Non-
        elderly Disabled Vouchers): Provided, That 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, from 
        amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2010 
        funding cycle shall provide renewal funding for each 
        public housing agency based on voucher management 
        system (VMS) leasing and cost data for the most recent 
        Federal fiscal year and by applying the most recent 
        Annual Adjustment Factor as established by the 
        Secretary, and by making any necessary adjustments for 
        the costs associated with deposits to family self-
        sufficiency program escrow accounts or first-time 
        renewals including tenant protection or HOPE VI 
        vouchers: Provided further, That none of the funds 
        provided under this paragraph may be used to fund a 
        total number of unit months under lease which exceeds a 
        public housing agency's authorized level of units under 
        contract, except for public housing agencies 
        participating in the Moving to Work demonstration, 
        which are instead governed by the terms and conditions 
        of their MTW agreements:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall, to the extent necessary to stay within 
        the amount specified under this paragraph (except as 
        otherwise modified under this Act), pro rate each 
        public housing agency's allocation otherwise 
        established pursuant to this paragraph: Provided 
        further, That except as provided in the last two 
        provisos, the entire amount specified under this 
        paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this Act) 
        shall be obligated to the public housing agencies based 
        on the allocation and pro rata method described above, 
        and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
        of their annual budget not later than 60 days after 
        enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary may extend the 60-day notification period 
        with the prior written approval of the House and Senate 
        Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
        public housing agencies participating in the Moving to 
        Work demonstration shall be funded pursuant to their 
        Moving to Work agreements and shall be subject to the 
        same pro rata adjustments under the previous provisos: 
        Provided further, That up to $150,000,000 shall be 
        available only: (1) to adjust the allocations for 
        public housing agencies, after application for an 
        adjustment by a public housing agency that experienced 
        a significant increase, as determined by the Secretary, 
        in renewal costs of tenant-based rental assistance 
        resulting from unforeseen circumstances or from 
        portability under section 8(r) of the Act; (2) for 
        adjustments for public housing agencies with voucher 
        leasing rates at the end of the calendar year that 
        exceed the average leasing for the 12-month period used 
        to establish the allocation; (3) for adjustments for 
        the costs associated with VASH vouchers; or (4) for 
        vouchers that were not in use during the 12-month 
        period in order to be available to meet a commitment 
        pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act: Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall allocate amounts 
        under the previous proviso based on need as determined 
        by the Secretary: Provided further, That of the amounts 
        made available under this paragraph, up to $100,000,000 
        may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
        for ``Transformation Initiative'';
            (2) $120,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental 
        assistance for relocation and replacement of housing 
        units that are demolished or disposed of pursuant to 
        the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations 
        Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-134), conversion of section 
        23 projects to assistance under section 8, the family 
        unification program under section 8(x) of the Act, 
        relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to 
        a request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, 
        enhanced vouchers under any provision of law 
        authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the 
        Act, HOPE VI vouchers, mandatory and voluntary 
        conversions, and tenant protection assistance including 
        replacement and relocation assistance or for project 
        based assistance to prevent the displacement of 
        unassisted elderly tenants currently residing in 
        section 202 properties financed between 1959 and 1974 
        that are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as 
        amended, or under the authority as provided under this 
        Act: Provided, That the Secretary shall provide 
        replacement vouchers for all units that were occupied 
        within the previous 24 months that cease to be 
        available as assisted housing, subject only to the 
        availability of funds;
            (3) $1,575,000,000 shall be for administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in 
        administering the section 8 tenant-based rental 
        assistance program, of which up to $50,000,000 shall be 
        available to the Secretary to allocate to public 
        housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees 
        associated with section 8 tenant protection rental 
        assistance, the administration of disaster related 
        vouchers, Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing vouchers, 
        and other incremental vouchers: Provided, That no less 
        than $1,525,000,000 of the amount provided in this 
        paragraph shall be allocated to public housing agencies 
        for the calendar year 2010 funding cycle based on 
        section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appropriation Act 
        provisions) as in effect immediately before the 
        enactment of the Quality Housing and Work 
        Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276): 
        Provided further, That if the amounts made available 
        under this paragraph are insufficient to pay the 
        amounts determined under the previous proviso, the 
        Secretary may decrease the amounts allocated to 
        agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, 
        to the extent necessary to provide full payment of 
        amounts determined under the previous proviso, utilize 
        unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
        carryovers, remaining from funds appropriated to the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development under this 
        heading, for fiscal year 2009 and prior fiscal years, 
        notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts 
        were appropriated: Provided further, That amounts 
        provided under this paragraph shall be only for 
        activities related to the provision of tenant-based 
        rental assistance authorized under section 8, including 
        related development activities;
            (4) $60,000,000 shall be available for family self-
        sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the Act;
            (5) $15,000,000 for incremental voucher assistance 
        through the Family Unification Program: Provided, That 
        the assistance made available under this paragraph 
        shall continue to remain available for family 
        unification upon turnover: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall make 
        such funding available, notwithstanding section 204 
        (competition provision) of this title, to entities with 
        demonstrated experience and resources for supportive 
        services;
            (6) $75,000,000 for incremental rental voucher 
        assistance for use through a supported housing program 
        administered in conjunction with the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937: Provided, 
        That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
        shall make such funding available, notwithstanding 
        section 204 (competition provision) of this title, to 
        public housing agencies that partner with eligible VA 
        Medical Centers or other entities as designated by the 
        Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, based 
        on geographical need for such assistance as identified 
        by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
        public housing agency administrative performance, and 
        other factors as specified by the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs: 
        Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development may waive, or specify alternative 
        requirements for (in consultation with the Secretary of 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs), any provision of 
        any statute or regulation that the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development administers in connection with 
        the use of funds made available under this paragraph 
        (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
        nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the 
        environment), upon a finding by the Secretary that any 
        such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary 
        for the effective delivery and administration of such 
        voucher assistance: Provided further, That assistance 
        made available under this paragraph shall continue to 
        remain available for homeless veterans upon turn-over.

                        HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-
Based Rental Assistance'', for fiscal year 2010 and prior years 
may be used for renewal of or amendments to section 8 project-
based contracts and for performance-based contract 
administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
funds were appropriated: Provided, That any obligated balances 
of contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have 
been terminated shall be cancelled: Provided further, That 
amounts heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current 
fiscal year, from project-based Section 8 contracts from source 
years fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby 
rescinded, and an amount of additional new budget authority, 
equivalent to the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated, to 
remain available until expended, for the purposes set forth 
under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise available.

                      PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out 
capital and management activities for public housing agencies, 
as authorized under section 9 of the United States Housing Act 
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the ``Act'') $2,500,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2013: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, 
during fiscal year 2010 the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may not delegate to any Department official other 
than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for 
Public and Indian Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of 
section 9(j) regarding the extension of the time periods under 
such section: Provided further, That for purposes of such 
section 9(j), the term ``obligate'' means, with respect to 
amounts, that the amounts are subject to a binding agreement 
that will result in outlays, immediately or in the future: 
Provided further, That up to $15,345,000 shall be to support 
the ongoing Public Housing Financial and Physical Assessment 
activities of the Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC): 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be available for the 
Secretary to make grants, notwithstanding section 204 of this 
Act, to public housing agencies for emergency capital needs 
including safety and security measures necessary to address 
crime and drug-related activity as well as needs resulting from 
unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters 
excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and natural 
disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 
2010: Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading up to $40,000,000 may be for grants to be competitively 
awarded to public housing agencies for the construction, 
rehabilitation or purchase of facilities to be used to provide 
early education, adult education, job training or other 
appropriate services to public housing residents: Provided 
further, That grantees shall demonstrate an ability to leverage 
other Federal, State, local or private resources for the 
construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of such facilities, 
and that selected grantees shall demonstrate a capacity to pay 
the long-term costs of operating such facilities: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$50,000,000 shall be for supportive services, service 
coordinators and congregate services as authorized by section 
34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American 
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading up to $8,820,000 is to 
support the costs of administrative and judicial receiverships: 
Provided further, That from the funds made available under this 
heading, the Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal 
year 2010 to public housing agencies that are designated high 
performers.

                     PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For 2010 payments to public housing agencies for the 
operation and management of public housing, as authorized by 
section 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,775,000,000: Provided, That, in fiscal 
year 2009 and all fiscal years hereafter, no amounts under this 
heading in any appropriations Act may be used for payments to 
public housing agencies for the costs of operation and 
management of public housing for any year prior to the current 
year of such Act: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, up to $15,000,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``Transformation Initiative''.

     REVITALIZATION OF SEVERELY DISTRESSED PUBLIC HOUSING (HOPE VI)

    For grants to public housing agencies for demolition, site 
revitalization, replacement housing, and tenant-based 
assistance grants to projects as authorized by section 24 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), 
$200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, of 
which the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may use up 
to $10,000,000 for technical assistance and contract expertise, 
to be provided directly or indirectly by grants, contracts or 
cooperative agreements, including training and cost of 
necessary travel for participants in such training, by or to 
officials and employees of the department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents: Provided, That none of such funds 
shall be used directly or indirectly by granting competitive 
advantage in awards to settle litigation or pay judgments, 
unless expressly permitted herein: Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided under this heading, up to $65,000,000 may 
be available for a demonstration of the Choice Neighborhoods 
Initiative (subject to such section 24 except as otherwise 
specified under the provisos for this demonstration under this 
heading) for the transformation, rehabilitation and replacement 
housing needs of both public and HUD-assisted housing and to 
transform neighborhoods of poverty into functioning, 
sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with appropriate 
services, public assets, transportation and access to jobs, and 
schools, including public schools, community schools, and 
charter schools: Provided further, That for this demonstration, 
funding may also be used for the conversion of vacant or 
foreclosed properties to affordable housing: Provided further, 
That use of funds made available for this demonstration under 
this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further, 
That grantees shall commit to an additional period of 
affordability determined by the Secretary, but not fewer than 
20 years: Provided further, That grantees shall undertake 
comprehensive local planning with input from residents and the 
community: Provided further, That for the purposes of this 
demonstration, applicants may include local governments, public 
housing authorities, nonprofits, and for-profit developers that 
apply jointly with a public entity: Provided further, That such 
grantees shall create partnerships with other local 
organizations including assisted housing owners, service 
agencies and resident organizations: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall develop and publish a Notice of Funding 
Availability for the allocation and use of such competitive 
funds in this demonstration, including but not limited to 
eligible activities, program requirements, protections and 
services for affected residents, and performance metrics.

                  NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANTS

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as 
authorized under title I of the Native American Housing 
Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 
U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $700,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding the Native American 
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, to 
determine the amount of the allocation under title I of such 
Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the 
formula under section 302 of such Act with the need component 
based on single-race Census data and with the need component 
based on multi-race Census data, and the amount of the 
allocation for each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the 
two resulting allocation amounts: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $3,500,000 shall be 
contracted for assistance for a national organization 
representing Native American housing interests for providing 
training and technical assistance to Indian housing authorities 
and tribally designated housing entities as authorized under 
NAHASDA; and $4,250,000 shall be to support the inspection of 
Indian housing units, contract expertise, training, and 
technical assistance in the training, oversight, and management 
of such Indian housing and tenant-based assistance, including 
up to $300,000 for related travel: Provided further, That of 
the amount provided under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be 
made available for the cost of guaranteed notes and other 
obligations, as authorized by title VI of NAHASDA: Provided 
further, That such costs, including the costs of modifying such 
notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in section 502 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize the total 
principal amount of any notes and other obligations, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $18,000,000.

                  NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT

    For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program, as 
authorized under title VIII of the Native American Housing 
Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111 
et seq.), $13,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of this amount, $300,000 shall be for training 
and technical assistance activities, including up to $100,000 
for related travel by Hawaii-based HUD employees.

           INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 
184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 
U.S.C. 1715z), $7,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the costs of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, up to $919,000,000: Provided 
further, That up to $750,000 shall be for administrative 
contract expenses including management processes and systems to 
carry out the loan guarantee program.

      NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 
184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 
U.S.C. 1715z), $1,044,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the costs of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $41,504,255.

                   Community Planning and Development

              HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH AIDS

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with 
AIDS program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $335,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011, except that amounts allocated 
pursuant to section 854(c)(3) of such Act shall remain 
available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that were funded under section 854(c)(3) of 
such Act that meet all program requirements before awarding 
funds for new contracts and activities authorized under this 
section.

                       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND

    For assistance to units of State and local government, and 
to other entities, for economic and community development 
activities, and for other purposes, $4,450,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012, unless otherwise specified: 
Provided, That of the total amount provided, $3,990,068,480 is 
for carrying out the community development block grant program 
under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, as amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.): 
Provided further, That unless explicitly provided for under 
this heading (except for planning grants provided in the second 
paragraph and amounts made available under the third 
paragraph), not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended for 
planning and management development and administration: 
Provided further, That $65,000,000 shall be for grants to 
Indian tribes notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of 
which, notwithstanding any other provision of law (including 
section 204 of this Act), up to $3,960,000 may be used for 
emergencies that constitute imminent threats to health and 
safety.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, 
$172,843,570 shall be available for grants for the Economic 
Development Initiative (EDI) to finance a variety of targeted 
economic investments in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified in the explanatory statement accompanying 
this Act: Provided, That none of the funds provided under this 
paragraph may be used for program operations: Provided further, 
That, for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010, no unobligated 
funds for EDI grants may be used for any purpose except 
acquisition, planning, design, purchase of equipment, 
revitalization, redevelopment or construction.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, 
$22,087,950 shall be available for neighborhood initiatives 
that are utilized to improve the conditions of distressed and 
blighted areas and neighborhoods, to stimulate investment, 
economic diversification, and community revitalization in areas 
with population outmigration or a stagnating or declining 
economic base, or to determine whether housing benefits can be 
integrated more effectively with welfare reform initiatives: 
Provided, That amounts made available under this paragraph 
shall be provided in accordance with the terms and conditions 
specified in the explanatory statement accompanying this Act.
    The referenced explanatory statement under this heading in 
title II of division K of Public Law 110-161 is deemed to be 
amended by striking ``Old Town Boys and Girls Club, 
Albuquerque, NM, for renovation of the existing Old Town Boys 
and Girls Club accompanied by construction of new areas for the 
Club'' and inserting ``Old Town Boys and Girls Club, 
Albuquerque, NM, for renovation of the Heights Boys and Girls 
Club''.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading 
``Community Planning and Development'' in title II of division 
K of Public Law 110-161 is deemed to be amended by striking 
``Custer County, ID for acquisition of an unused middle school 
building'' and inserting ``Custer County, ID, to construct a 
community center''.
    The referenced explanatory statement under this heading in 
division I of Public Law 111-8 is deemed to be amended with 
respect to ``Hawaii County Office of Housing and Community 
Development, HI'' by striking ``Senior Housing Renovation 
Project'' and inserting ``Transitional Housing Project''.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading 
``Community Planning and Development'' in title II of division 
I of Public Law 111-8 is deemed to be amended by striking 
``Custer County, ID, to purchase a middle school building'' and 
inserting ``Custer County, ID, to construct a community 
center''.
    The referenced explanatory statement under the heading 
``Community Development Fund'' in title II of division K of 
Public Law 110-161 is deemed to be amended with respect to 
``Emergency Housing Consortium in San Jose, CA'' by striking 
``for construction of the Sobrato Transitional Center, a 
residential facility for homeless individuals and families'' 
and inserting ``for improvements to homeless services and 
prevention facilities''.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading, 
$150,000,000 shall be made available for a Sustainable 
Communities Initiative to improve regional planning efforts 
that integrate housing and transportation decisions, and 
increase the capacity to improve land use and zoning: Provided, 
That $100,000,000 shall be for Regional Integrated Planning 
Grants to support the linking of transportation and land use 
planning: Provided further, That not less than $25,000,000 of 
the funding made available for Regional Integrated Planning 
Grants shall be awarded to metropolitan areas of less than 
500,000: Provided further, That $40,000,000 shall be for 
Community Challenge Planning Grants to foster reform and reduce 
barriers to achieve affordable, economically vital, and 
sustainable communities: Provided further, That before funding 
is made available for Regional Integrated Planning Grants or 
Community Challenge Planning Grants, the Secretary, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Transportation, shall submit 
a plan to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
the Senate Committee on Banking and Urban Affairs, and the 
House Committee on Financial Services establishing grant 
criteria as well as performance measures by which the success 
of grantees will be measured: Provided further, That the 
Secretary will consult with the Secretary of Transportation in 
evaluating grant proposals: Provided further, That up to 
$10,000,000 shall be for a joint Department of Housing and 
Urban Development and Department of Transportation research 
effort that shall include a rigorous evaluation of the Regional 
Integrated Planning Grants and Community Challenge Planning 
Grants programs: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for the Rural Innovation Fund for grants to Indian 
tribes, State housing finance agencies, State community and/or 
economic development agencies, local rural nonprofits and 
community development corporations to address the problems of 
concentrated rural housing distress and community poverty: 
Provided further, That of the funding made available under the 
previous proviso, at least $5,000,000 shall be made available 
to promote economic development and entrepreneurship for 
federally recognized Indian Tribes, through activities 
including the capitalization of revolving loan programs and 
business planning and development, funding is also made 
available for technical assistance to increase capacity through 
training and outreach activities: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $25,000,000 is for 
grants pursuant to section 107 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5307).

         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $6,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, as authorized by section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
U.S.C. 5308): Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $275,000,000, 
notwithstanding any aggregate limitation on outstanding 
obligations guaranteed in section 108(k) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

                       BROWNFIELDS REDEVELOPMENT

    For competitive economic development grants, as authorized 
by section 108(q) of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1974, as amended, for Brownfields redevelopment projects, 
$17,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That no funds made available under this heading may 
be used to establish loan loss reserves for the section 108 
Community Development Loan Guarantee program.

                  HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized 
under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act, as amended, $1,825,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2012: Provided, That, funds provided in 
prior appropriations Acts for technical assistance, that were 
made available for Community Housing Development Organizations 
technical assistance, and that still remain available, may be 
used for HOME technical assistance notwithstanding the purposes 
for which such amounts were appropriated.

        SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity 
Program, as authorized under section 11 of the Housing 
Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended, 
$82,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012: 
Provided, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$27,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-Help and 
Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under 
section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 
1996, as amended: Provided further, That $50,000,000 shall be 
made available for the second, third and fourth capacity 
building activities authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD 
Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not 
less than $5,000,000 may be made available for rural capacity 
building activities: Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be 
made available for capacity building activities as authorized 
in sections 6301 through 6305 of Public Law 110-246.

                       HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the emergency shelter grants program as authorized 
under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act, as amended; the supportive housing program as 
authorized under subtitle C of title IV of such Act; the 
section 8 moderate rehabilitation single room occupancy program 
as authorized under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended, to assist homeless individuals pursuant to section 441 
of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act; and the shelter 
plus care program as authorized under subtitle F of title IV of 
such Act, $1,865,000,000, of which $1,860,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2012, and of which $5,000,000 
shall remain available until expended for rehabilitation 
projects with 10-year grant terms: Provided, That not less than 
30 percent of funds made available, excluding amounts provided 
for renewals under the Shelter Plus Care Program and emergency 
shelter grants, shall be used for permanent housing for 
individuals and families: Provided further, That all funds 
awarded for services shall be matched by not less than 25 
percent in funding by each grantee: Provided further, That for 
all match requirements applicable to funds made available under 
this heading for this fiscal year and prior years, a grantee 
may use (or could have used) as a source of match funds other 
funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal agencies 
unless there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibition on 
any such use of any such funds: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall renew on an annual basis expiring contracts or 
amendments to contracts funded under the shelter plus care 
program if the program is determined to be needed under the 
applicable continuum of care and meets appropriate program 
requirements and financial standards, as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That all awards of assistance 
under this heading shall be required to coordinate and 
integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, 
social services, and employment programs for which homeless 
populations may be eligible, including Medicaid, State 
Children's Health Insurance Program, Temporary Assistance for 
Needy Families, Food Stamps, and services funding through the 
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Block Grant, Workforce 
Investment Act, and the Welfare-to-Work grant program: Provided 
further, That up to $6,000,000 of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for the national homeless data 
analysis project: Provided further, That up to $12,650,000 of 
the funds made available under this heading may be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Transformation 
Initiative'': Provided further, That all balances for Shelter 
Plus Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care 
Renewal account and transferred to this account shall be 
available, if recaptured, for Shelter Plus Care renewals in 
fiscal year 2010.

                            Housing Programs

                    PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-
based subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise 
provided for, $8,157,853,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2009, and 
$393,672,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2010: Provided, That the amounts made 
available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) Up to $8,325,853,000 shall be available for 
        expiring or terminating section 8 project-based subsidy 
        contracts (including section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
        contracts), for amendments to section 8 project-based 
        subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
        rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into 
        pursuant to section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of 
        section 8 contracts for units in projects that are 
        subject to approved plans of action under the Emergency 
        Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-
        Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership 
        Act of 1990, and for administrative and other expenses 
        associated with project-based activities and assistance 
        funded under this paragraph.
            (2) Not less than $232,000,000 but not to exceed 
        $258,000,000 shall be available for performance-based 
        contract administrators for section 8 project-based 
        assistance: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development may also use such amounts for 
        performance-based contract administrators for the 
        administration of: interest reduction payments pursuant 
        to section 236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments pursuant 
        to section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
        of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2) rental 
        assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); project 
        rental assistance contracts for the elderly under 
        section 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 
        1701q); project rental assistance contracts for 
        supportive housing for persons with disabilities under 
        section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project 
        assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the 
        Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667); 
        and loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 
        (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667).
            (3) Amounts recaptured under this heading, the 
        heading ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'', 
        or the heading ``Housing Certificate Fund'' may be used 
        for renewals of or amendments to section 8 project-
        based contracts or for performance-based contract 
        administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
        such amounts were appropriated.

                        HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital 
advance contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized 
by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and for 
project rental assistance for the elderly under section 
202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments to contracts for 
such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such 
assistance for up to a 1-year term, and for supportive services 
associated with the housing, $825,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2013, of which up to $582,000,000 shall be 
for capital advance and project-based rental assistance awards: 
Provided, That amounts for project rental assistance contracts 
are to remain available for the liquidation of valid 
obligations for 10 years following the date of such obligation: 
 Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, up to $90,000,000 shall be for service coordinators 
and the continuation of existing congregate service grants for 
residents of assisted housing projects, and of which up to 
$40,000,000 shall be for grants under section 202b of the 
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q-2) for conversion of 
eligible projects under such section to assisted living or 
related use and for substantial and emergency capital repairs 
as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
only for making competitive grants to private nonprofit 
organizations and consumer cooperatives for covering costs of 
architectural and engineering work, site control, and other 
planning relating to the development of supportive housing for 
the elderly that is eligible for assistance under section 202 
of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q): Provided further, 
That amounts under this heading shall be available for Real 
Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related 
activities associated with section 202 capital advance 
projects: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
provisions of section 202 governing the terms and conditions of 
project rental assistance, except that the initial contract 
term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration.

                 HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

    For capital advance contracts, including amendments to 
capital advance contracts, for supportive housing for persons 
with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
8013), for project rental assistance for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act, 
including amendments to contracts for such assistance and 
renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance for up to a 
1-year term, and for supportive services associated with the 
housing for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 
811(b)(1) of such Act, and for tenant-based rental assistance 
contracts entered into pursuant to section 811 of such Act, 
$300,000,000, of which up to $186,000,000 shall be for capital 
advances and project-based rental assistance contracts, to 
remain available until September 30, 2013: Provided, That 
amounts for project rental assistance contracts are to remain 
available for the liquidation of valid obligations for 10 years 
following the date of such obligation:  Provided further, That, 
of the amount provided under this heading, $87,100,000 shall be 
for amendments or renewal of tenant-based assistance contracts 
entered into prior to fiscal year 2005 (only one amendment 
authorized for any such contract): Provided further, That all 
tenant-based assistance made available under this heading shall 
continue to remain available only to persons with disabilities: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the provisions 
of section 811 governing the terms and conditions of project 
rental assistance and tenant-based assistance, except that the 
initial contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 
years in duration: Provided further, That amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for Real Estate 
Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related activities 
associated with section 811 Capital Advance Projects.

                     Housing Counseling Assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding 
loans, as authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968, as amended, $87,500,000, including up 
to $2,500,000 for administrative contract services, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That funds shall 
be used for providing counseling and advice to tenants and 
homeowners, both current and prospective, with respect to 
property maintenance, financial management/literacy, and such 
other matters as may be appropriate to assist them in improving 
their housing conditions, meeting their financial needs, and 
fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; 
for program administration; and for housing counselor training: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, not less than $13,500,000 shall be awarded to HUD-
certified housing counseling agencies located in the 100 
metropolitan statistical areas with the highest rate of home 
foreclosures for the purpose of assisting homeowners with 
inquiries regarding mortgage-modification assistance and 
mortgage scams.

                         ENERGY INNOVATION FUND

    For an Energy Innovation Fund to enable the Federal Housing 
Administration and the new Office of Sustainability to catalyze 
innovations in the residential energy efficiency sector that 
have promise of replicability and help create a standardized 
home energy efficient retrofit market, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2013: Provided, That $25,000,000 
shall be for the Energy Efficient Mortgage Innovation pilot 
program, directed at the single family housing market: Provided 
further, That $25,000,000 shall be for the Multifamily Energy 
Pilot, directed at the multifamily housing market.

                    OTHER ASSISTED HOUSING PROGRAMS

                       RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and 
section 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
1) in State-aided, non-insured rental housing projects, 
$40,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                            RENT SUPPLEMENT

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts recaptured from terminated contracts under 
section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 
(12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236 of the National Housing Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) $72,036,000 are rescinded: Provided, That 
no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

            PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES TRUST FUND

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National 
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $16,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $7,000,000 is to be derived 
from the Manufactured Housing Fees Trust Fund: Provided, That 
not to exceed the total amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be available from the general fund of the Treasury to the 
extent necessary to incur obligations and make expenditures 
pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act: Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be 
reduced as such collections are received during fiscal year 
2010 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2010 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at not more than $9,000,000 and 
fees pursuant to such section 620 shall be modified as 
necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2010 
appropriation: Provided further, That for the dispute 
resolution and installation programs, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may assess and collect fees from any 
program participant: Provided further, That such collections 
shall be deposited into the Fund, and the Secretary, as 
provided herein, may use such collections, as well as fees 
collected under section 620, for necessary expenses of such 
Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding the requirements of 
section 620 of such Act, the Secretary may carry out 
responsibilities of the Secretary under such Act through the 
use of approved service providers that are paid directly by the 
recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (including transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 2010, commitments to guarantee single 
family loans insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund 
shall not exceed a loan principal of $400,000,000,000: 
Provided, That for new loans guaranteed pursuant to section 255 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20), the Secretary 
shall adjust the factors used to calculate the principal limit 
(as such term is defined in HUD Handbook 4235.1) that were 
assumed in the President's Budget Request for 2010 for such 
loans, as necessary to ensure that the program operates at a 
net zero subsidy rate: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 2010, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $50,000,000: Provided further, That 
the foregoing amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
governmental entities in connection with sales of single family 
real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured 
under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund. For administrative 
contract expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, 
$188,900,000, of which up to $70,794,000 may be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund, and of which up to $7,500,000 shall 
be for education and outreach of FHA single family loan 
products: Provided further, That to the extent guaranteed loan 
commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2010, 
an additional $1,400 for administrative contract expenses shall 
be available for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan 
commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount below 
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $30,000,000.

                GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 
238 and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 
1735c), including the cost of loan guarantee modifications, as 
that term is defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended, $8,600,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That commitments to guarantee loans shall 
not exceed $15,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of 
which is to be guaranteed.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, 
as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, and 519(a) of 
the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $20,000,000, which 
shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single-family real properties owned 
by the Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the 
purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended 
(12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $500,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2011.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs 
of research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, 
not otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et 
seq.), including carrying out the functions of the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development under section 1(a)(1)(I) of 
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $48,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise 
provided for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 
1988, and section 561 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1987, as amended, $72,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011, of which $42,500,000 shall be to carry out 
activities pursuant to such section 561: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training 
Academy, and may use such funds to provide such training: 
Provided further, That no funds made available under this 
heading shall be used to lobby the executive or legislative 
branches of the Federal Government in connection with a 
specific contract, grant or loan: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $500,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for 
the creation and promotion of translated materials and other 
programs that support the assistance of persons with limited 
English proficiency in utilizing the services provided by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as Authorized by 
section 1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
Reduction Act of 1992, $140,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011, of which not less than $20,000,000 shall be 
for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to sections 501 and 
502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 that shall 
include research, studies, testing, and demonstration efforts, 
including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards: 
Provided, That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant 
to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.) and other provisions of the law that further the 
purposes of such Act, a grant under the Healthy Homes 
Initiative, Operation Lead Elimination Action Plan (LEAP), or 
the Lead Technical Studies program under this heading or under 
prior appropriations Acts for such purposes under this heading, 
shall be considered to be funds for a special project for 
purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing Property 
Disposition Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That of the 
total amount made available under this heading, $48,000,000 
shall be made available on a competitive basis for areas with 
the highest lead paint abatement needs: Provided further, That 
each recipient of funds provided under the second proviso shall 
make a matching contribution in an amount not less than 25 
percent: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
matching requirement cited in the preceding proviso on a case 
by case basis if the Secretary determines that such a waiver is 
necessary to advance the purposes of this program: Provided 
further, That each applicant shall submit a detailed plan and 
strategy that demonstrates adequate capacity that is acceptable 
to the Secretary to carry out the proposed use of funds 
pursuant to a notice of funding availability: Provided further, 
That amounts made available under this heading in this or prior 
appropriations Acts, and that still remain available, may be 
used for any purpose under this heading notwithstanding the 
purpose for which such amounts were appropriated if a program 
competition is undersubscribed and there are other program 
competitions under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                     Management and Administration

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For additional capital for the Working Capital Fund (42 
U.S.C. 3535) for the maintenance of infrastructure for 
Department-wide information technology systems, for the 
continuing operation and maintenance of both Department-wide 
and program-specific information systems, and for program-
related maintenance activities, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That any amounts 
transferred to this Fund under this Act shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That any amounts transferred 
to this Fund from amounts appropriated by previously enacted 
appropriations Acts or from within this Act may be used only 
for the purposes specified under this Fund, in addition to the 
purposes for which such amounts were appropriated: Provided 
further, That up to $15,000,000 may be transferred to this 
account from all other accounts in this title (except for the 
Office of the Inspector General account) that make funds 
available for salaries and expenses.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Inspector General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 
1978, as amended, $125,000,000: Provided, That the Inspector 
General shall have independent authority over all personnel 
issues within this office.

                       TRANSFORMATION INITIATIVE

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for combating mortgage fraud, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    In addition, of the amounts made available in this Act 
under each of the following headings under this title, the 
Secretary may transfer to, and merge with, this account up to 1 
percent from each such account, and such transferred amounts 
shall be available until September 30, 2012, for (1) research, 
evaluation, and program metrics; (2) program demonstrations; 
(3) technical assistance and capacity building; and (4) 
information technology: ``Public Housing Capital Fund'', 
``Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing'', 
``Brownfields Redevelopment'', ``Section 108 Loan Guarantees'', 
``Energy Innovation Fund'', ``Housing Opportunities for Persons 
With AIDS'', ``Community Development Fund'', ``HOME Investment 
Partnerships Program'', ``Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership 
Opportunity Program'', ``Housing for the Elderly'', ``Housing 
for Persons With Disabilities'', ``Housing Counseling 
Assistance'', ``Payment to Manufactured Housing Fees Trust 
Fund'', ``Mutual Mortgage Insurance Program Account'', 
``General and Special Risk Program Account'', ``Research and 
Technology'', ``Lead Hazard Reduction'', ``Rental Housing 
Assistance'', and ``Fair Housing Activities'': Provided, That 
of the amounts made available under this paragraph, not less 
than $80,000,000 and not more than $180,000,000 shall be 
available for information technology modernization, including 
development and deployment of a Next Generation of Voucher 
Management System and development and deployment of modernized 
Federal Housing Administration systems: Provided further, That 
not more than 25 percent of the funds made available for 
information technology modernization may be obligated until the 
Secretary submits to the Committees on Appropriations a plan 
for expenditure that (1) identifies for each modernization 
project (a) the functional and performance capabilities to be 
delivered and the mission benefits to be realized, (b) the 
estimated lifecycle cost, and (c) key milestones to be met; (2) 
demonstrates that each modernization project is (a) compliant 
with the department's enterprise architecture, (b) being 
managed in accordance with applicable lifecycle management 
policies and guidance, (c) subject to the department's capital 
planning and investment control requirements, and (d) supported 
by an adequately staffed project office; and (3) has been 
reviewed by the Government Accountability Office: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this 
paragraph, not less than $45,000,000 shall be available for 
technical assistance and capacity building: Provided further, 
That technical assistance activities shall include, technical 
assistance for HUD programs, including HOME, Community 
Development Block Grant, homeless programs, HOPWA, HOPE VI, 
Public Housing, the Housing Choice Voucher Program, Fair 
Housing Initiative Program, Housing Counseling, Healthy Homes, 
Sustainable Communities, Energy Innovation Fund and other 
technical assistance as determined by the Secretary: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available for research, 
evaluation and program metrics and program demonstrations, the 
Secretary shall include an assessment of the housing needs of 
Native Americans, including sustainable building practices: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available for 
research, evaluation and program metrics and program 
demonstrations, the Secretary shall include an evaluation of 
the Moving-to-Work demonstration program: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall submit a plan to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations for approval detailing how the 
funding provided under this heading will be allocated to each 
of the four categories identified under this heading and for 
what projects or activities funding will be used: Provided 
further, That following the initial approval of this plan, the 
Secretary may amend the plan with the approval of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget 
authority, or in lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts 
associated with such budget authority, that are recaptured from 
projects described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. 
McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 
1437 note) shall be rescission or in the case of cash, shall be 
remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget authority 
or cash recaptured and not rescission or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or 
local governments or local housing agencies with projects 
approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for 
which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance 
with such section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the 
Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the budget authority or 
cash recaptured and not rescission or remitted to the Treasury 
to provide project owners with incentives to refinance their 
project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this 
Act may be used during fiscal year 2010 to investigate or 
prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful 
activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the 
filing or maintaining of a non-frivolous legal action, that is 
engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or preventing 
action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203. (a) Notwithstanding section 854(c)(1)(A) of the 
AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)(1)(A)), from 
any amounts made available under this title for fiscal year 
2010 that are allocated under such section, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development shall allocate and make a grant, 
in the amount determined under subsection (b), for any State 
that--
            (1) received an allocation in a prior fiscal year 
        under clause (ii) of such section; and
            (2) is not otherwise eligible for an allocation for 
        fiscal year 2010 under such clause (ii) because the 
        areas in the State outside of the metropolitan 
        statistical areas that qualify under clause (i) in 
        fiscal year 2010 do not have the number of cases of 
        acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) required 
        under such clause.
    (b) The amount of the allocation and grant for any State 
described in subsection (a) shall be an amount based on the 
cumulative number of AIDS cases in the areas of that State that 
are outside of metropolitan statistical areas that qualify 
under clause (i) of such section 854(c)(1)(A) in fiscal year 
2010, in proportion to AIDS cases among cities and States that 
qualify under clauses (i) and (ii) of such section and States 
deemed eligible under subsection (a).
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
allocated for fiscal year 2010 under section 854(c) of the AIDS 
Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to the City of 
New York, New York, on behalf of the New York-Wayne-White 
Plains, New York-New Jersey Metropolitan Division (hereafter 
``metropolitan division'') of the New York-Newark-Edison, NY-
NJ-PA Metropolitan Statistical Area, shall be adjusted by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by: (1) allocating 
to the City of Jersey City, New Jersey, the proportion of the 
metropolitan area's or division's amount that is based on the 
number of cases of AIDS reported in the portion of the 
metropolitan area or division that is located in Hudson County, 
New Jersey, and adjusting for the proportion of the 
metropolitan division's high incidence bonus if this area in 
New Jersey also has a higher than average per capita incidence 
of AIDS; and (2) allocating to the City of Paterson, New 
Jersey, the proportion of the metropolitan area's or division's 
amount that is based on the number of cases of AIDS reported in 
the portion of the metropolitan area or division that is 
located in Bergen County and Passaic County, New Jersey, and 
adjusting for the proportion of the metropolitan division's 
high incidence bonus if this area in New Jersey also has a 
higher than average per capita incidence of AIDS. The recipient 
cities shall use amounts allocated under this subsection to 
carry out eligible activities under section 855 of the AIDS 
Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in their respective 
portions of the metropolitan division that is located in New 
Jersey.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
allocated for fiscal year 2010 under section 854(c) of the AIDS 
Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)) to areas with a 
higher than average per capita incidence of AIDS, shall be 
adjusted by the Secretary on the basis of area incidence 
reported over a 3-year period.
    Sec. 204.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to 
title II of this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and 
in accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 205.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development subject to the Government Corporation Control Act 
or section 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, 
without regard to the limitations on administrative expenses, 
for legal services on a contract or fee basis, and for 
utilizing and making payment for services and facilities of the 
Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National 
Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, 
Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any member 
thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 
as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 206.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or 
through a reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation 
for the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall be 
available for any program, project or activity in excess of 
amounts set forth in the budget estimates submitted to 
Congress.
    Sec. 207.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development which are subject to the 
Government Corporation Control Act, are hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to each such corporation or 
agency and in accordance with law, and to make such contracts 
and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in 
carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 2010 for 
such corporation or agency except as hereinafter provided: 
Provided, That collections of these corporations and agencies 
may be used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments only 
to the extent expressly provided for in this Act (unless such 
loans are in support of other forms of assistance provided for 
in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this proviso 
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage 
purchases are necessary to protect the financial interest of 
the United States Government.
    Sec. 208.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, 
unobligated, recaptured and excess funds in each program and 
activity within the jurisdiction of the Department and shall 
submit additional, updated budget information to these 
Committees upon request.
    Sec. 209. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the amount allocated for fiscal year 2010 under section 854(c) 
of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to 
the City of Wilmington, Delaware, on behalf of the Wilmington, 
Delaware-Maryland-New Jersey Metropolitan Division (hereafter 
``metropolitan division''), shall be adjusted by the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development by allocating to the State of 
New Jersey the proportion of the metropolitan division's amount 
that is based on the number of cases of AIDS reported in the 
portion of the metropolitan division that is located in New 
Jersey, and adjusting for the proportion of the metropolitan 
division's high incidence bonus if this area in New Jersey also 
has a higher than average per capita incidence of AIDS. The 
State of New Jersey shall use amounts allocated to the State 
under this subsection to carry out eligible activities under 
section 855 of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12904) in the portion of the metropolitan division that is 
located in New Jersey.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall allocate to 
Wake County, North Carolina, the amounts that otherwise would 
be allocated for fiscal year 2010 under section 854(c) of the 
AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)) to the City 
of Raleigh, North Carolina, on behalf of the Raleigh-Cary, 
North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. Any amounts 
allocated to Wake County shall be used to carry out eligible 
activities under section 855 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) 
within such metropolitan statistical area.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing 
Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may adjust the allocation of the amounts 
that otherwise would be allocated for fiscal year 2010 under 
section 854(c) of such Act, upon the written request of an 
applicant, in conjunction with the State(s), for a formula 
allocation on behalf of a metropolitan statistical area, to 
designate the State or States in which the metropolitan 
statistical area is located as the eligible grantee(s) of the 
allocation. In the case that a metropolitan statistical area 
involves more than one State, such amounts allocated to each 
State shall be in proportion to the number of cases of AIDS 
reported in the portion of the metropolitan statistical area 
located in that State. Any amounts allocated to a State under 
this section shall be used to carry out eligible activities 
within the portion of the metropolitan statistical area located 
in that State.
    Sec. 210.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal 
year 2011, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development's congressional budget justifications to be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, shall use the identical account 
and sub-account structure provided under this Act.
    Sec. 211.  A public housing agency or such other entity 
that administers Federal housing assistance for the Housing 
Authority of the county of Los Angeles, California, the States 
of Alaska, Iowa, and Mississippi shall not be required to 
include a resident of public housing or a recipient of 
assistance provided under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 on the board of directors or a similar 
governing board of such agency or entity as required under 
section (2)(b) of such Act. Each public housing agency or other 
entity that administers Federal housing assistance under 
section 8 for the Housing Authority of the county of Los 
Angeles, California and the States of Alaska, Iowa and 
Mississippi that chooses not to include a resident of Public 
Housing or a recipient of section 8 assistance on the board of 
directors or a similar governing board shall establish an 
advisory board of not less than six residents of public housing 
or recipients of section 8 assistance to provide advice and 
comment to the public housing agency or other administering 
entity on issues related to public housing and section 8. Such 
advisory board shall meet not less than quarterly.
    Sec. 212. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
subject to the conditions listed in subsection (b), for fiscal 
years 2010 and 2011, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may authorize the transfer of some or all project-
based assistance, debt and statutorily required low-income and 
very low-income use restrictions, associated with one or more 
multifamily housing project to another multifamily housing 
project or projects.
    (b) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to 
the following conditions:
            (1) The number of low-income and very low-income 
        units and the net dollar amount of Federal assistance 
        provided by the transferring project shall remain the 
        same in the receiving project or projects.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined 
        by the Secretary, be either physically obsolete or 
        economically non-viable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or 
        exceed applicable physical standards established by the 
        Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring 
        project shall notify and consult with the tenants 
        residing in the transferring project and provide a 
        certification of approval by all appropriate local 
        governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who 
        remain eligible for assistance to be provided by the 
        receiving project or projects shall not be required to 
        vacate their units in the transferring project or 
        projects until new units in the receiving project are 
        available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is 
        in the best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the 
        receiving project or projects meets the condition 
        specified in subsection (c)(2)(A), any lien on the 
        receiving project resulting from additional financing 
        obtained by the owner shall be subordinate to any FHA-
        insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the 
        requirements of subsection (c)(2)(E), the owner or 
        mortgagor of the receiving project or projects shall 
        execute and record either a continuation of the 
        existing use agreement or a new use agreement for the 
        project where, in either case, any use restrictions in 
        such agreement are of no lesser duration than the 
        existing use restrictions.
            (9) Any financial risk to the FHA General and 
        Special Risk Insurance Fund, as determined by the 
        Secretary, would be reduced as a result of a transfer 
        completed under this section.
            (10) The Secretary determines that Federal 
        liability with regard to this project will not be 
        increased.
    (c) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-
        income'' shall have the meanings provided by the 
        statute and/or regulations governing the program under 
        which the project is insured or assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means 
        housing that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage 
                insured under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based 
                assistance attached to the structure including 
                projects undergoing mark to market debt 
                restructuring under the Multifamily Assisted 
                Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 
                202 of the Housing Act of 1959 as amended by 
                section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 
                202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as such section 
                existed before the enactment of the Cranston-
                Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; or
                    (E) housing or vacant land that is subject 
                to a use agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) 
                of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to 
                assistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of 
                such Act (as such section existed immediately 
                before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 
                101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
                1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under 
                section 236 and/or additional assistance 
                payments under section 236(f)(2) of the 
                National Housing Act; and
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' 
        means the multifamily housing project or projects to 
        which some or all of the project-based assistance, 
        debt, and statutorily required use low-income and very 
        low-income restrictions are to be transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the 
        multifamily housing project which is transferring some 
        or all of the project-based assistance, debt and the 
        statutorily required low-income and very low-income use 
        restrictions to the receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development.
    Sec. 213.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans 
under the heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in 
title III of this Act shall be allocated to the same Native 
Alaskan housing block grant recipients that received funds in 
fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 214.  No funds provided under this title may be used 
for an audit of the Government National Mortgage Association 
that makes applicable requirements under the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 215. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 
8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to 
any individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of 
        higher education (as defined under section 102 of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term 
        is defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was 
        not receiving assistance under such section 8 as of 
        November 30, 2005; and
            (7) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has 
        parents who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, 
        to receive assistance under section 8 of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person 
to receive assistance under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance 
(in excess of amounts received for tuition) that an individual 
receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 
et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 1002)), shall be considered income to that 
individual, except for a person over the age of 23 with 
dependent children.
    Sec. 216.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first 
sentence of section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-g)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may, until September 30, 2010, insure and enter 
into commitments to insure mortgages under section 255(g) of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20).
    Sec. 217.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
fiscal year 2010, in managing and disposing of any multifamily 
property that is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary shall maintain 
any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the 
Secretary determines, in consultation with the tenants and the 
local government, that such a multifamily property owned or 
held by the Secretary is not feasible for continued rental 
assistance payments under such section 8 or other programs, 
based on consideration of (1) the costs of rehabilitating and 
operating the property and all available Federal, State, and 
local resources, including rent adjustments under section 524 
of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability 
Act of 1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that 
cannot be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary 
may, in consultation with the tenants of that property, 
contract for project-based rental assistance payments with an 
owner or owners of other existing housing properties, or 
provide other rental assistance. The Secretary shall also take 
appropriate steps to ensure that project-based contracts remain 
in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants 
for imminent major threats to health and safety. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this 
section, the contract and allowable rent levels on such 
properties shall be subject to the requirements under section 
524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 218.  During fiscal year 2010, in the provision of 
rental assistance under section 8(o) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in connection with a 
program to demonstrate the economy and effectiveness of 
providing such assistance for use in assisted living facilities 
that is carried out in the counties of the State of Michigan 
notwithstanding paragraphs (3) and (18)(B)(iii) of such section 
8(o), a family residing in an assisted living facility in any 
such county, on behalf of which a public housing agency 
provides assistance pursuant to section 8(o)(18) of such Act, 
may be required, at the time the family initially receives such 
assistance, to pay rent in an amount exceeding 40 percent of 
the monthly adjusted income of the family by such a percentage 
or amount as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
determines to be appropriate.
    Sec. 219.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall report quarterly to the House of Representatives and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations on HUD's use of all sole 
source contracts, including terms of the contracts, cost, and a 
substantive rationale for using a sole source contract.
    Sec. 220.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
recipient of a grant under section 202b of the Housing Act of 
1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) after December 26, 2000, in accordance 
with the unnumbered paragraph at the end of section 202(b) of 
such Act, may, at its option, establish a single-asset 
nonprofit entity to own the project and may lend the grant 
funds to such entity, which may be a private nonprofit 
organization described in section 831 of the American 
Homeownership and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000.
    Sec. 221. (a) The amounts provided under the subheading 
``Program Account'' under the heading ``Community Development 
Loan Guarantees'' may be used to guarantee, or make commitments 
to guarantee, notes, or other obligations issued by any State 
on behalf of non-entitlement communities in the State in 
accordance with the requirements of section 108 of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974: Provided, That, any 
State receiving such a guarantee or commitment shall distribute 
all funds subject to such guarantee to the units of general 
local government in non-entitlement areas that received the 
commitment.
    (b) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
promulgate regulations governing the administration of the 
funds described under subsection (a).
    Sec. 222.  Section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking ``fiscal 
        year'' and all that follows through the period at the 
        end and inserting ``fiscal year 2010.''; and
            (2) in subsection (o), by striking ``September'' 
        and all that follows through the period at the end and 
        inserting ``September 30, 2010.''.
    Sec. 223.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 
or fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any 
asset management requirement imposed by the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development in connection with the operating 
fund rule: Provided, That an agency seeking a discontinuance of 
a reduction of subsidy under the operating fund formula shall 
not be exempt from asset management requirements.
    Sec. 224.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in 
this Act and in future Acts for the operation, capital 
improvement and management of public housing as authorized by 
sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not impose 
any requirement or guideline relating to asset management that 
restricts or limits in any way the use of capital funds for 
central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), 
(2)): Provided, That a public housing agency may not use 
capital funds authorized under section 9(d) for activities that 
are eligible under section 9(e) for assistance with amounts 
from the operating fund in excess of the amounts permitted 
under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 225.  No official or employee of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development shall be designated as an 
allotment holder unless the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer has determined that such allotment holder has 
implemented an adequate system of funds control and has 
received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that, not later than 
90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a trained 
allotment holder shall be designated for each HUD subaccount 
under the headings ``Executive Direction'' and heading 
``Administration, Operations, and Management'' as well as each 
account receiving appropriations for ``personnel compensation 
and benefits'' within the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.
    Sec. 226.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall report quarterly to the House of Representatives and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations on the status of all 
section 8 project-based housing, including the number of all 
project-based units by region as well as an analysis of all 
federally subsidized housing being refinanced under the Mark-
to-Market program. The Secretary shall in the report identify 
all existing units maintained by region as section 8 project-
based units and all project-based units that have opted out of 
section 8 or have otherwise been eliminated as section 8 
project-based units. The Secretary shall identify in detail and 
by project all the efforts made by the Department to preserve 
all section 8 project-based housing units and all the reasons 
for any units which opted out or otherwise were lost as section 
8 project-based units. Such analysis shall include a review of 
the impact of the loss of any subsidized units in that housing 
marketplace, such as the impact of cost and the loss of 
available subsidized, low-income housing in areas with scarce 
housing resources for low-income families.
    Sec. 227.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related 
litigation must be paid from individual program office 
personnel benefits and compensation funding. The annual budget 
submission for program office personnel benefit and 
compensation funding must include program-related litigation 
costs for attorney fees as a separate line item request.
    Sec. 228.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall for Fiscal Year 2010 and subsequent 
fiscal years, notify the public through the Federal Register 
and other means, as determined appropriate, of the issuance of 
a notice of the availability of assistance or notice of funding 
availability (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund 
administered by the Secretary that is to be competitively 
awarded. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for Fiscal 
Year 2010 and subsequent fiscal years, the Secretary may make 
the NOFA available only on the Internet at the appropriate 
government website or websites or through other electronic 
media, as determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 229. (a) Approval of Prepayment of Debt.--Upon request 
of the project sponsor of a project assisted with a loan under 
section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (as in effect before the 
enactment of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act), for which the Secretary's consent to prepayment is 
required, the Secretary shall approve the prepayment of any 
indebtedness to the Secretary relating to any remaining 
principal and interest under the loan as part of a prepayment 
plan under which--
            (1) the project sponsor agrees to operate the 
        project until the maturity date of the original loan 
        under terms at least as advantageous to existing and 
        future tenants as the terms required by the original 
        loan agreement or any project-based rental assistance 
        payments contract under section 8 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (or any other project-based rental 
        housing assistance programs of the Department of 
        Housing and Urban Development, including the rent 
        supplement program under section 101 of the Housing and 
        Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s)) or any 
        successor project-based rental assistance program, 
        except as provided by subsection (a)(2)(B); and
            (2) the prepayment may involve refinancing of the 
        loan if such refinancing results--
                    (A) in a lower interest rate on the 
                principal of the loan for the project and in 
                reductions in debt service related to such 
                loan; or
                    (B) in the case of a project that is 
                assisted with a loan under such section 202 
                carrying an interest rate of 6 percent or 
                lower, a transaction under which--
                            (i) the project owner shall address 
                        the physical needs of the project;
                            (ii) the prepayment plan for the 
                        transaction, including the refinancing, 
                        shall meet a cost benefit analysis, as 
                        established by the Secretary, that the 
                        benefit of the transaction outweighs 
                        the cost of the transaction including 
                        any increases in rent charged to 
                        unassisted tenants;
                            (iii) the overall cost for 
                        providing rental assistance under 
                        section 8 for the project (if any) is 
                        not increased, except, upon approval by 
                        the Secretary to--
                                    (I) mark-up-to-market 
                                contracts pursuant to section 
                                524(a)(3) of the Multifamily 
                                Assisted Housing Reform and 
                                Affordability Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                1437f note), as such section is 
                                carried out by the Secretary 
                                for properties owned by 
                                nonprofit organizations; or
                                    (II) mark-up-to-budget 
                                contracts pursuant to section 
                                524(a)(4) of the Multifamily 
                                Assisted Housing Reform and 
                                Affordability Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                1437f note), as such section is 
                                carried out by the Secretary 
                                for properties owned by 
                                eligible owners (as such term 
                                is defined in section 202(k) of 
                                the Housing Act of 1959 (12 
                                U.S.C. 1701q(k));
                            (iv) the project owner may charge 
                        tenants rent sufficient to meet debt 
                        service payments and operating cost 
                        requirements, as approved by the 
                        Secretary, if project-based rental 
                        assistance is not available or is 
                        insufficient for the debt service and 
                        operating cost of the project after 
                        refinancing. Such approval by the 
                        Secretary--
                                    (I) shall be the basis for 
                                the owner to agree to terminate 
                                the project-based rental 
                                assistance contract that is 
                                insufficient for the debt 
                                service and operating cost of 
                                the project after refinancing; 
                                and
                                    (II) shall be an 
                                eligibility event for the 
                                project for purposes of section 
                                8(t) of the United States 
                                Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                                1437f(t));
                            (v) units to be occupied by tenants 
                        assisted under section 8(t) of the 
                        United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
                        U.S.C. 1437f(t)) shall, upon 
                        termination of the occupancy of such 
                        tenants, become eligible for project-
                        based assistance under section 8(o)(13) 
                        of the United States Housing Act of 
                        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) without 
                        regard to the percentage limitations 
                        provided in such section; and
                            (vi) there shall be a use agreement 
                        of 20 years from the date of the 
                        maturity date of the original 202 loan 
                        for all units, including units to be 
                        occupied by tenants assisted under 
                        section 8(t) of the United States 
                        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                        1437f(t)).
    Sec. 230.  No property identified by the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development as surplus Federal property for 
use to assist the homeless shall be made available to any 
homeless group unless the group is a member in good standing 
under any of HUD's homeless assistance programs or is in good 
standing with any other program which receives funds from any 
other Federal or State agency or entity: Provided, That an 
exception may be made for an entity not involved with Federal 
homeless programs to use surplus Federal property for the 
homeless only after the Secretary or another responsible 
Federal agency has fully and comprehensively reviewed all 
relevant finances of the entity, the track record of the entity 
in assisting the homeless, the ability of the entity to manage 
the property, including all costs, the ability of the entity to 
administer homeless programs in a manner that is effective to 
meet the needs of the homeless population that is expected to 
use the property and any other related issues that demonstrate 
a commitment to assist the homeless: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall not require the entity to have cash in hand in 
order to demonstrate financial ability but may rely on the 
entity's prior demonstrated fundraising ability or commitments 
for in-kind donations of goods and services: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall make all such information and its 
decision regarding the award of the surplus property available 
to the committees of jurisdiction, including a full 
justification of the appropriateness of the use of the property 
to assist the homeless as well as the appropriateness of the 
group seeking to obtain the property to use such property to 
assist the homeless: Provided further, That, this section shall 
apply to properties in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 made 
available as surplus Federal property for use to assist the 
homeless.
    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development is authorized to transfer up to 5 percent of 
funds appropriated for any account under this title under the 
heading ``Personnel Compensation and Benefits'' to any other 
account under this title under the heading ``Personnel 
Compensation and Benefits'' only after such transfer has been 
submitted to, and received prior written approval by, the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That, no 
appropriation for any such account shall be increased or 
decreased by more than 10 percent by all such transfers.
    Sec. 232.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may increase, pursuant to this section, the number of Moving-
to-Work agencies authorized under section 204, title II, of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 
(Public Law 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321) by adding to the program 
three Public Housing Agencies that meet the following 
requirements: is a High Performing Agency under the Public 
Housing Assessment System (PHAS). No PHA shall be granted this 
designation through this section that administers in excess of 
5,000 aggregate housing vouchers and public housing units. No 
PHA granted this designation through this section shall receive 
more funding under sections 8 or 9 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937 than they otherwise would have received absent this 
designation. In addition to other reporting requirements, all 
Moving-to-Work agencies shall report financial data to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development as specified by the 
Secretary, so that the effect of Moving-to-Work policy changes 
can be measured.
    Sec. 233.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
determining the market value of any multifamily real property 
or multifamily loan for any noncompetitive sale to a State or 
local government, the Secretary shall in fiscal year 2010 
consider, but not be limited to, industry standard appraisal 
practices, including the cost of repairs needed to bring the 
property into such condition as to satisfy minimum State and 
local code standards and the cost of maintaining the 
affordability restrictions imposed by the Secretary on the 
multifamily real property or multifamily loan.
    Sec. 234.  The Disaster Housing Assistance Programs, 
administered by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, shall be considered a ``program of the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development'' under section 904 of the 
McKinney Act for the purpose of income verifications and 
matching.
    Sec. 235. (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development shall prepare a report, and post such report 
on the public website of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (in this section referred to as the 
``Department''), regarding the number of homes owned by the 
Department and the budget impact of acquiring, maintaining, and 
selling such homes.
    (b) Content.--The report required by this section shall 
include--
            (1) the number of residential homes that the 
        Department owned during the years 2004 through 2009;
            (2) an itemized breakdown of the total annual 
        financial impact, including losses and gains from 
        selling homes and maintenance and acquisition of homes, 
        of home ownership by the Department since 2004;
            (3) a detailed explanation of the reasons for the 
        ownership by the Department of the homes;
            (4) a list of the 10 urban areas in which the 
        Department owns the most homes and the rate of 
        homelessness in each of those areas; and
            (5) a list of the 10 States in which the Department 
        owns the most homes and the rate of homelessness in 
        each of those States.
    Sec. 236.  The matter under the heading ``Community 
Development Fund'', under the heading ``Community Planning and 
Development'', under the heading ``Department of Housing and 
Urban Development'' in chapter 10 of title I of division B of 
the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 110-329; 122 Stat. 3601) 
is amended by striking ``: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading may be used by a State or 
locality as a matching requirement, share, or contribution for 
any other Federal program''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized 
by section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
$7,300,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received for publications and training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission 
as authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
1936, as amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles 
as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances 
therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, $24,135,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      office of inspector general

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
for the National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out 
the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $19,000,000: Provided, That the Inspector General 
shall have all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties 
specified in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 
App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, including false 
statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any person or 
entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation: Provided further, That the Inspector 
General may enter into contracts and other arrangements for 
audits, studies, analyses, and other services with public 
agencies and with private persons, subject to the applicable 
laws and regulations that govern the obtaining of such services 
within the National Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided 
further, That the Inspector General may select, appoint, and 
employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and 
regulations that govern such selections, appointments, and 
employment within Amtrak: Provided further, That concurrent 
with the President's budget request for fiscal year 2011, the 
Inspector General shall submit to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations a budget request for fiscal year 
2011 in similar format and substance to those submitted by 
executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation 
Safety Board, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to 
the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902) $98,050,000, of which 
not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That of the funds provided 
under this heading, $2,416,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2011: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, up to $100,000 shall be provided through 
reimbursement to the Department of Transportation's Office of 
Inspector General to audit the National Transportation Safety 
Board's financial statements. The amounts made available to the 
National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include 
amounts necessary to make lease payments on an obligation 
incurred in fiscal year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation 
for use in neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized 
by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 
8101-8107), $133,000,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be for a 
multi-family rental housing program: Provided, That section 
605(a) of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 
U.S.C. 8104) is amended by adding at the end of the first 
sentence, prior to the period, ``, except that the board-
appointed officers may be paid salary at a rate not to exceed 
level II of the Executive Schedule'': Provided further, That in 
addition, $35,000,000 shall be made available until expended 
for capital grants to rehabilitate or finance the 
rehabilitation of affordable housing units, including necessary 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That in addition, 
$65,000,000 shall be made available until expended to the 
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for mortgage foreclosure 
mitigation activities, under the following terms and 
conditions:
            (1) The Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation 
        (``NRC''), shall make grants to counseling 
        intermediaries approved by the Department of Housing 
        and Urban Development (HUD) (with match to be 
        determined by the NRC based on affordability and the 
        economic conditions of an area; a match also may be 
        waived by the NRC based on the aforementioned 
        conditions) to provide mortgage foreclosure mitigation 
        assistance primarily to States and areas with high 
        rates of defaults and foreclosures to help eliminate 
        the default and foreclosure of mortgages of owner-
        occupied single-family homes that are at risk of such 
        foreclosure. Other than areas with high rates of 
        defaults and foreclosures, grants may also be provided 
        to approved counseling intermediaries based on a 
        geographic analysis of the Nation by the NRC which 
        determines where there is a prevalence of mortgages 
        that are risky and likely to fail, including any trends 
        for mortgages that are likely to default and face 
        foreclosure. A State Housing Finance Agency may also be 
        eligible where the State Housing Finance Agency meets 
        all the requirements under this paragraph. A HUD-
        approved counseling intermediary shall meet certain 
        mortgage foreclosure mitigation assistance counseling 
        requirements, as determined by the NRC, and shall be 
        approved by HUD or the NRC as meeting these 
        requirements.
            (2) Mortgage foreclosure mitigation assistance 
        shall only be made available to homeowners of owner-
        occupied homes with mortgages in default or in danger 
        of default. These mortgages shall likely be subject to 
        a foreclosure action and homeowners will be provided 
        such assistance that shall consist of activities that 
        are likely to prevent foreclosures and result in the 
        long-term affordability of the mortgage retained 
        pursuant to such activity or another positive outcome 
        for the homeowner. No funds made available under this 
        paragraph may be provided directly to lenders or 
        homeowners to discharge outstanding mortgage balances 
        or for any other direct debt reduction payments.
            (3) The use of Mortgage Foreclosure Mitigation 
        Assistance by approved counseling intermediaries and 
        State Housing Finance Agencies shall involve a 
        reasonable analysis of the borrower's financial 
        situation, an evaluation of the current value of the 
        property that is subject to the mortgage, counseling 
        regarding the assumption of the mortgage by another 
        non-Federal party, counseling regarding the possible 
        purchase of the mortgage by a non-Federal third party, 
        counseling and advice of all likely restructuring and 
        refinancing strategies or the approval of a work-out 
        strategy by all interested parties.
            (4) NRC may provide up to 15 percent of the total 
        funds under this paragraph to its own charter members 
        with expertise in foreclosure prevention counseling, 
        subject to a certification by the NRC that the 
        procedures for selection do not consist of any 
        procedures or activities that could be construed as an 
        unacceptable conflict of interest or have the 
        appearance of impropriety.
            (5) HUD-approved counseling entities and State 
        Housing Finance Agencies receiving funds under this 
        paragraph shall have demonstrated experience in 
        successfully working with financial institutions as 
        well as borrowers facing default, delinquency and 
        foreclosure as well as documented counseling capacity, 
        outreach capacity, past successful performance and 
        positive outcomes with documented counseling plans 
        (including post mortgage foreclosure mitigation 
        counseling), loan workout agreements and loan 
        modification agreements. NRC may use other criteria to 
        demonstrate capacity in underserved areas.
            (6) Of the total amount made available under this 
        paragraph, up to $3,000,000 may be made available to 
        build the mortgage foreclosure and default mitigation 
        counseling capacity of counseling intermediaries 
        through NRC training courses with HUD-approved 
        counseling intermediaries and their partners, except 
        that private financial institutions that participate in 
        NRC training shall pay market rates for such training.
            (7) Of the total amount made available under this 
        paragraph, up to 4 percent may be used for associated 
        administrative expenses for the NRC to carry out 
        activities provided under this section.
            (8) Mortgage foreclosure mitigation assistance 
        grants may include a budget for outreach and 
        advertising, and training, as determined by the NRC.
            (9) The NRC shall continue to report bi-annually to 
        the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations as 
        well as the Senate Banking Committee and House 
        Financial Services Committee on its efforts to mitigate 
        mortgage default.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental 
of conference rooms, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) 
of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness in 
carrying out the functions pursuant to title II of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, $2,450,000.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
2010 pay raises for programs funded in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act or previous 
appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in 
regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 403.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
nor may any be transferred to other appropriations, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 404.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none 
of the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in this 
Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury 
derived by the collection of fees and available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates 
a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or 
activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by the 
Congress; (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific 
activity by either the House or Senate Committees on 
Appropriations for a different purpose; (5) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less; (6) reduces existing programs, 
projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less; or (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
administration, or department different from the budget 
justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
the table accompanying the explanatory statement accompanying 
this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless prior approval is 
received from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided, That not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and of the House of Representatives to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the report shall include: (1) a table for each appropriation 
with a separate column to display the President's budget 
request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due to 
enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year 
enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for each 
appropriation both by object class and program, project, and 
activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the respective 
appropriation; and (3) an identification of items of special 
congressional interest: Provided further, That the amount 
appropriated or limited for salaries and expenses for an agency 
shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after the 
required date that the report has not been submitted to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
available at the end of fiscal year 2010 from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2010 
in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 2011, 
for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, 
That a request shall be submitted to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these 
requests shall be made in compliance with reprogramming 
guidelines under section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  All Federal agencies and departments that are 
funded under this Act shall issue a report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations on all sole source 
contracts by no later than July 30, 2010. Such report shall 
include the contractor, the amount of the contract and the 
rationale for using a sole source contract.
    Sec. 408. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, 
        skills, and abilities bearing directly upon the 
        performance of official duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels 
        of emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of 
        the content and methods to be used in the training and 
        written end of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new 
        age'' belief systems as defined in Equal Employment 
        Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
        September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
        participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the 
        workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
directly upon the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 409.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any 
Federal, State, or local projects that seek to use the power of 
eminent domain, unless eminent domain is employed only for a 
public use: Provided, That for purposes of this section, public 
use shall not be construed to include economic development that 
primarily benefits private entities: Provided further, That any 
use of funds for mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or 
highway projects as well as utility projects which benefit or 
serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the 
general public or which have other common-carrier or public-
utility functions that serve the general public and are subject 
to regulation and oversight by the government, and projects for 
the removal of an immediate threat to public health and safety 
or brownsfield as defined in the Small Business Liability 
Relief and Brownsfield Revitalization Act (Public Law 107-118) 
shall be considered a public use for purposes of eminent 
domain.
    Sec. 410.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 411.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be available to pay the salary for any person filling 
a position, other than a temporary position, formerly held by 
an employee who has left to enter the Armed Forces of the 
United States and has satisfactorily completed his period of 
active military or naval service, and has within 90 days after 
his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than 1 
year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as 
still qualified to perform the duties of his former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 412.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may 
be expended in contravention of sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the 
``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 413.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act shall be made available to any person 
or entity that has been found to violate the Buy American Act 
(41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for first-class airline accommodations in contravention 
of sections 301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to purchase a light bulb for an office building unless 
the light bulb has, to the extent practicable, an Energy Star 
or Federal Energy Management Program designation.
    Sec. 416. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
the public website of that agency any report required to be 
submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the 
national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises 
        national security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 
45 days.
    Sec. 417.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to establish, issue, implement, administer, or enforce 
any prohibition or restriction on the establishment or 
effectiveness of any occupancy preference for veterans in 
supportive housing for the elderly that: (1) is provided 
assistance by the Department of Housing and Urban Development; 
and (2)(A) is or would be located on property of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs; or (B) is subject to an enhanced use lease 
with the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 418.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
or any prior Act may be provided to the Association of 
Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN), or any of its 
affiliates, subsidiaries, or allied organizations.
    Sec. 419.  Specific projects contained in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
accompanying this Act (H. Rept. 111-218) that are considered 
congressional earmarks for purposes of clause 9 of rule XXI of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, when intended to be 
awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under a full 
and open competition.
            
    This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2010''.
    And the Senate agree to the same.

     DIVISION B--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities 
of the Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for 
engaging in trade promotional activities abroad, including 
expenses of grants and cooperative agreements for the purpose 
of promoting exports of United States firms, without regard to 
44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical coverage for dependent 
members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas 
and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel and 
transportation of employees of the International Trade 
Administration between two points abroad, without regard to 49 
U.S.C. 40118; employment of Americans and aliens by contract 
for services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 
10 years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; 
purchase or construction of temporary demountable exhibition 
structures for use abroad; payment of tort claims, in the 
manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $327,000 
for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to exceed 
$45,000 per vehicle; obtaining insurance on official motor 
vehicles; and rental of tie lines, $456,204,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, of which $9,439,000 is to 
be derived from fees to be retained and used by the 
International Trade Administration, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302: Provided, That not less than $49,530,000 shall be for 
Manufacturing and Services; not less than $43,212,000 shall be 
for Market Access and Compliance; not less than $68,290,000 
shall be for the Import Administration; not less than 
$258,438,000 shall be for the Trade Promotion and United States 
and Foreign Commercial Service; and not less than $27,295,000 
shall be for Executive Direction and Administration: Provided 
further, That not less than $7,000,000 shall be for the Office 
of China Compliance, and not less than $4,400,000 shall be for 
the China Countervailing Duty Group: Provided further, That the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of 
section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in 
carrying out these activities without regard to section 5412 of 
the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 
4912); and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions 
under the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 shall include payment for assessments for 
services provided as part of these activities: Provided 
further, That negotiations shall be conducted within the World 
Trade Organization to recognize the right of members to 
distribute monies collected from antidumping and countervailing 
duties: Provided further, That negotiations shall be conducted 
within the World Trade Organization consistent with the 
negotiating objectives contained in the Trade Act of 2002, 
Public Law 107-210: Provided further, That within the amounts 
appropriated, $5,215,000 shall be used for the projects, and in 
the amounts, specified in the explanatory statement 
accompanying this Act.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

    For necessary expenses for export administration and 
national security activities of the Department of Commerce, 
including costs associated with the performance of export 
administration field activities both domestically and abroad; 
full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
families of employees stationed overseas; employment of 
Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; payment 
of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph 
of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; 
not to exceed $15,000 for official representation expenses 
abroad; awards of compensation to informers under the Export 
Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
401(b); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official 
use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to 
any price limitation otherwise established by law, 
$100,342,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$14,767,000 shall be for inspections and other activities 
related to national security: Provided, That the provisions of 
the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) 
of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities: Provided further, That payments and contributions 
collected and accepted for materials or services provided as 
part of such activities may be retained for use in covering the 
cost of such activities, and for providing information to the 
public with respect to the export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce and other 
export control programs of the United States and other 
governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided 
by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, and 
for trade adjustment assistance, $255,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic 
development assistance programs as provided for by law, 
$38,000,000: Provided, That these funds may be used to monitor 
projects approved pursuant to title I of the Public Works 
Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and 
the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in 
fostering, promoting, and developing minority business 
enterprise, including expenses of grants, contracts, and other 
agreements with public or private organizations, $31,500,000: 
Provided, That within the amounts appropriated, $1,100,000 
shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
in the explanatory statement accompanying this Act.

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic 
and statistical analysis programs of the Department of 
Commerce, $97,255,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011.

                          Bureau of the Census

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, 
analyzing, preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for 
by law, $259,024,000.

                     PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS

    For necessary expenses to collect and publish statistics 
for periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, 
$7,065,707,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be derived from 
available unobligated balances previously appropriated under 
this heading, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided in this or any other 
Act for any fiscal year may be used for the collection of 
census data on race identification that does not include ``some 
other race'' as a category: Provided further, That from amounts 
provided herein, funds may be used for additional promotion, 
outreach, and marketing activities.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
(NTIA), $19,999,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the 
Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for costs 
incurred in spectrum management, analysis, operations, and 
related services, and such fees shall be retained and used as 
offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as 
offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs 
incurred in telecommunications research, engineering, and 
related activities by the Institute for Telecommunication 
Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions 
under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION

    For the administration of grants, authorized by section 392 
of the Communications Act of 1934, $20,000,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 391 of the 
Act: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be available 
for program administration as authorized by section 391 of the 
Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 391 of the Act, the prior year unobligated balances may 
be made available for grants for projects for which 
applications have been submitted and approved during any fiscal 
year.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense 
of suits instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent 
and Trademark Office, $1,887,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections 
assessed and collected pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 and 35 U.S.C. 
41 and 376 are received during fiscal year 2010, so as to 
result in a fiscal year 2010 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
2010, should the total amount of offsetting fee collections be 
less than $1,887,000,000, this amount shall be reduced 
accordingly: Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $1,000 shall be made available in fiscal 
year 2010 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That in fiscal year 2010 from the amounts 
made available for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the 
amounts necessary to pay: (1) the difference between the 
percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO and employees 
under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and the 
normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter III of 
chapter 83 of that title; and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by the Office 
of Personnel Management, of post-retirement life insurance and 
post-retirement health benefits coverage for all USPTO 
employees, shall be transferred to the Civil Service Retirement 
and Disability Fund, the Employees Life Insurance Fund, and the 
Employees Health Benefits Fund, as appropriate, and shall be 
available for the authorized purposes of those accounts: 
Provided further, That sections 801, 802, and 803 of division 
B, Public Law 108-447 shall remain in effect during fiscal year 
2010: Provided further, That the Director may, this year, 
reduce by regulation fees payable for documents in patent and 
trademark matters, in connection with the filing of documents 
filed electronically in a form prescribed by the Director: 
Provided further, That from the amounts provided herein, no 
less than $4,000,000 shall be available only for the USPTO 
contribution in a cooperative or joint agreement or agreements 
with a non-profit organization or organizations, successfully 
audited within the previous year, and with previous experience 
in such programs, to conduct policy studies, including studies 
relating to activities of United Nations Specialized agencies 
and other international organizations, as well as conferences 
and other development programs, in support of fair 
international protection of intellectual property rights.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND SERVICES

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, $515,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'': Provided, That not 
to exceed $10,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That within the 
amounts appropriated, $10,500,000 shall be used for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified in the explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act.

                     INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

    For necessary expenses of the Hollings Manufacturing 
Extension Partnership of the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, $124,700,000, to remain available until 
expended. In addition, for necessary expenses of the Technology 
Innovation Program of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $69,900,000, to remain available until expended.

                  CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, $147,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $20,000,000 is for a 
competitive construction grant program for research science 
buildings: Provided, That within the amounts appropriated, 
$47,000,000 shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, 
specified in the explanatory statement accompanying this Act: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include 
in the budget justification materials that the Secretary 
submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce 
budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate 
for each National Institute of Standards and Technology 
construction project having a total multi-year program cost of 
more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget 
justification materials shall include an estimate of the 
budgetary requirements for each such project for each of the 
five subsequent fiscal years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; 
grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations 
for the purposes of conducting activities pursuant to 
cooperative agreements; and relocation of facilities, 
$3,305,178,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, 
except for funds provided for cooperative enforcement, which 
shall remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That 
fees and donations received by the National Ocean Service for 
the management of national marine sanctuaries may be retained 
and used for the salaries and expenses associated with those 
activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, 
That in addition, $3,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
the fund entitled ``Coastal Zone Management'' and in addition 
$104,600,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund 
entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research 
Pertaining to American Fisheries'': Provided further, That of 
the $3,412,778,000 provided for in direct obligations under 
this heading $3,305,178,000 is appropriated from the general 
fund, and $107,600,000 is provided by transfer: Provided 
further, That the total amount available for the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration corporate services 
administrative support costs shall not exceed $235,549,000: 
Provided further, That payments of funds made available under 
this heading to the Department of Commerce Working Capital Fund 
including Department of Commerce General Counsel legal services 
shall not exceed $41,944,000: Provided further, That within the 
amounts appropriated, $99,295,000 shall be used for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified in the explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act: Provided further, That any 
deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities 
in the explanatory statement accompanying this Act, or any use 
of deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in 
previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That in allocating 
grants under sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972, as amended, no coastal State shall 
receive more than 5 percent or less than 1 percent of increased 
funds appropriated over the previous fiscal year.
    In addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits 
Plan, and for payments for the medical care of retired 
personnel and their dependents under the Dependents Medical 
Care Act (10 U.S.C. 55), such sums as may be necessary.

               PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital 
assets, including alteration and modification costs, of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
$1,358,353,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012, 
except funds provided for construction of facilities which 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
$1,360,353,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
heading, $1,358,353,000 is appropriated from the general fund 
and $2,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year 
obligations: Provided further, That except to the extent 
expressly prohibited by any other law, the Department of 
Defense may delegate procurement functions related to the 
National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite 
System to officials of the Department of Commerce pursuant to 
section 2311 of title 10, United States Code: Provided further, 
That any deviation from the amounts designated for specific 
activities in the explanatory statement accompanying this Act, 
or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this 
heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures 
set forth in section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Commerce shall include in budget justification 
materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of 
the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget 
of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code) an estimate for each National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration Procurement, Acquisition or 
Construction project having a total of more than $5,000,000 and 
simultaneously the budget justification shall include an 
estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such project 
for each of the five subsequent fiscal years: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to enter into a 
lease, at no cost to the United States Government, with the 
Regents of the University of Alabama for a term of not less 
than 55 years, with two successive options each of 5 years, for 
land situated on the campus of University of Alabama in 
Tuscaloosa to house the Cooperative Institute and Research 
Center for Southeast Weather and Hydrology: Provided further, 
That within the amounts appropriated, $18,000,000 shall be used 
for the projects, and in the amounts, specified in the 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act.

                    PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of 
Pacific salmon populations, $80,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, That of the funds provided 
herein the Secretary of Commerce may issue grants to the States 
of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, 
and Federally-recognized tribes of the Columbia River and 
Pacific Coast for projects necessary for conservation of salmon 
and steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or 
endangered, or identified by a State as at-risk to be so-
listed, for maintaining populations necessary for exercise of 
tribal treaty fishing rights or native subsistence fishing, or 
for conservation of Pacific coastal salmon and steelhead 
habitat, based on guidelines to be developed by the Secretary 
of Commerce: Provided further, That funds disbursed to States 
shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds or 
documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 percent of the 
Federal funds.

                      COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed 
$3,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Operations, Research, 
and Facilities'' account to offset the costs of implementing 
such Act.

                   FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, during fiscal year 2010, obligations of direct loans may 
not exceed $16,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and 
not to exceed $59,000,000 for traditional direct loans as 
authorized by the Merchant Marine Act of 1936: Provided, That 
none of the funds made available under this heading may be used 
for direct loans for any new fishing vessel that will increase 
the harvesting capacity in any United States fishery.

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the departmental management of 
the Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not 
to exceed $5,000 for official reception and representation, 
$58,000,000: Provided, That the Secretary, within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act, shall provide a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate that audits and 
evaluates all decision documents and expenditures by the Bureau 
of the Census as they relate to the 2010 Census: Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided to the Secretary within 
this account, $5,000,000 shall not become available for 
obligation until the Secretary certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate that the Bureau of the 
Census has followed and met all standards and best practices, 
and all Office of Management and Budget guidelines related to 
information technology projects and contract management.

        HERBERT C. HOOVER BUILDING RENOVATION AND MODERNIZATION

    For expenses necessary, including blast windows, for the 
renovation and modernization of the Herbert C. Hoover Building, 
$22,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $27,000,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of 
Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities 
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to 
the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, and, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced 
payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such 
payments are in the public interest.
    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for 
salaries and expenses shall be available for hire of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of Commerce in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by 
more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of 
the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset (including 
land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided for 
in this Act or any other law appropriating funds for the 
Department of Commerce: Provided further, That for the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration this section shall 
provide for transfers among appropriations made only to the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and such 
appropriations may not be transferred and reprogrammed to other 
Department of Commerce bureaus and appropriation accounts.
    Sec. 104.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under this title resulting from personnel actions taken 
in response to funding reductions included in this title or 
from actions taken for the care and protection of loan 
collateral or grant property shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: 
Provided, That the authority to transfer funds between 
appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included 
elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to 
carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of 
funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 105.  The requirements set forth by section 112 of 
division B of Public Law 110-161 are hereby adopted by 
reference.
    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary may 
furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support 
the operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that 
persons, firms or organizations are authorized pursuant to the 
Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority 
to use or occupy in the Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, 
DC, or other buildings, the maintenance, operation, and 
protection of which has been delegated to the Secretary from 
the Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, 
on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received 
as reimbursement for services provided under this section or 
the authority under which the use or occupancy of the space is 
authorized, up to $200,000, shall be credited to the 
appropriation or fund which initially bears the costs of such 
services.
    Sec. 107.  With the consent of the President, the Secretary 
of Commerce shall represent the United States Government in 
negotiating and monitoring international agreements regarding 
fisheries, marine mammals, or sea turtles: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Commerce shall be responsible for the development 
and interdepartmental coordination of the policies of the 
United States with respect to the international negotiations 
and agreements referred to in this section.
    Sec. 108.  Section 101(k) of the Emergency Steel Loan 
Guarantee Act of 1999 (15 U.S.C. 1841 note) is amended by 
striking ``2009'' and inserting ``2011''.
    Sec. 109.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
prevent a grant recipient from deterring child pornography, 
copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over its 
networks.
    Sec. 110.  The Administration of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their 
consent, with reimbursement and subject to the limits of 
available appropriations, the land, services, equipment, 
personnel, and facilities of any department, agency or 
instrumentality of the United States, or of any State, local 
government, Indian tribal government, Territory or possession, 
or of any political subdivision thereof, or of any foreign 
government or international organization for purposes related 
to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute 
administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration.
     This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the 
Department of Justice, $118,488,000, of which not to exceed 
$4,000,000 for security and construction of Department of 
Justice facilities shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Attorney General is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated within General Administration to any office 
in this account: Provided further, That $18,693,000 is for 
Department Leadership; $8,101,000 is for Intergovernmental 
Relations/External Affairs; $12,715,000 is for Executive 
Support/Professional Responsibility; and $78,979,000 is for the 
Justice Management Division: Provided further, That any change 
in amounts specified in the preceding proviso greater than 5 
percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations consistent with the terms of 
section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority is in addition to transfers authorized under section 
505 of this Act.

                   NATIONAL DRUG INTELLIGENCE CENTER

    For necessary expenses of the National Drug Intelligence 
Center, $44,023,000, of which $2,000,000 shall be for 
reimbursement of Air Force personnel for the National Drug 
Intelligence Center to support the Department of Defense's 
counter-drug intelligence responsibilities: Provided, That the 
National Drug Intelligence Center shall maintain the personnel 
and technical resources to provide timely support to law 
enforcement authorities and the intelligence community by 
conducting document and computer exploitation of materials 
collected in Federal, State, and local law enforcement activity 
associated with counter-drug, counterterrorism, and national 
security investigations and operations.

                 JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and departmental 
direction, $88,285,000, to remain available until expended.

            TACTICAL LAW ENFORCEMENT WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS

    For the costs of developing and implementing a nation-wide 
Integrated Wireless Network supporting Federal law enforcement 
communications, and for the costs of operations and maintenance 
of existing Land Mobile Radio legacy systems, $206,143,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Attorney 
General shall transfer to this account all funds made available 
to the Department of Justice for the purchase of portable and 
mobile radios: Provided further, That any transfer made under 
the preceding proviso shall be subject to section 505 of this 
Act.

                   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration-related activities, 
$300,685,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer 
from the Executive Office for Immigration Review fees deposited 
in the ``Immigration Examinations Fee'' account.

                           DETENTION TRUSTEE

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Detention Trustee, 
$1,438,663,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Trustee shall be responsible for managing the Justice 
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be considered ``funds 
appropriated for State and local law enforcement assistance'' 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4013(b).

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$84,368,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole 
Commission as authorized, $12,859,000.

                            Legal Activities

            SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL ACTIVITIES

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the 
Department of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including 
not to exceed $20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to 
be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for 
solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; and rent 
of private or Government-owned space in the District of 
Columbia, $875,097,000, of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $10,000 shall be available to the United States 
National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney 
General that emergent circumstances require additional funding 
for litigation activities of the Civil Division, the Attorney 
General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries and Expenses, 
General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations for 
the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may 
be necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
such sums as may be necessary shall be available to reimburse 
the Office of Personnel Management for salaries and expenses 
associated with the election monitoring program under section 8 
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973f): Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided under this heading for 
the election monitoring program $3,390,000, shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the 
Department of Justice associated with processing cases under 
the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to 
exceed $7,833,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury 
Compensation Trust Fund.

               SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and 
kindred laws, $163,170,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 
18a), regardless of the year of collection (and estimated to be 
$102,000,000 in fiscal year 2010), shall be retained and used 
for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2010, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2010 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at $61,170,000.

             SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative 
agreements, $1,934,003,000: Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $8,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That of the amount provided 
under this heading, not less than $36,980,000 shall be used for 
salaries and expenses for assistant U.S. Attorneys to carry out 
section 704 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act 
of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) concerning the prosecution of 
offenses relating to the sexual exploitation of children: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $6,000,000 is for salaries and expenses for new 
assistant U.S. Attorneys to carry out additional prosecutions 
of serious crimes in Indian Country.

                   UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee 
Program, as authorized, $219,250,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee 
System Fund: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, deposits to the Fund shall be available in such amounts 
as may be necessary to pay refunds due depositors: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$210,000,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
589a(b) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2010, so as to result in a final 
fiscal year 2010 appropriation from the Fund estimated at 
$4,250,000.

      SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMISSION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, including services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$2,117,000.

                     FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of 
contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, including advances, 
and for expenses of foreign counsel, $168,300,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be made available for construction of buildings 
for protected witness safesites: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $3,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness security 
caravans: Provided further, That not to exceed $11,000,000 may 
be made available for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and upgrade of secure telecommunications equipment and a secure 
automated information network to store and retrieve the 
identities and locations of protected witnesses.

           SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$11,479,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this 
Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict 
resolution and violence prevention activities of the Community 
Relations Service, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to the Community Relations Service, from available 
appropriations for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under 
section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                         ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(B), (F), and 
(G), $20,990,000, to be derived from the Department of Justice 
Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals 
Service, $1,125,763,000; of which not to exceed $30,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation 
expenses; and of which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for information technology systems.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized 
by the United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and 
related support, $26,625,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which not less than $12,625,000 shall be available 
for the costs of courthouse security equipment, including 
furnishings, relocations, and telephone systems and cabling.

                       National Security Division

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
National Security Division, $87,938,000; of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 for information technology systems shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney 
General that emergent circumstances require additional funding 
for the activities of the National Security Division, the 
Attorney General may transfer such amounts to this heading from 
available appropriations for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under 
section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT

    For necessary expenses for the identification, 
investigation, and prosecution of individuals associated with 
the most significant drug trafficking and affiliated money 
laundering organizations not otherwise provided for, to include 
inter-governmental agreements with State and local law 
enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $528,569,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated 
from appropriations under this heading may be used under 
authorities available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for detection, investigation, and prosecution of 
crimes against the United States, $7,658,622,000, of which 
$101,066,000 is designated as being for overseas deployments 
and other activities pursuant to sections 401(c)(4) and 
423(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010; and of which not 
to exceed $150,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $205,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, upon a 
determination that additional funding is necessary to carry out 
construction of the Biometrics Technology Center, may transfer 
from amounts available for ``Salaries and Expenses'' to amounts 
available for ``Construction'' up to $30,000,000 in fees 
collected to defray expenses for the automation of fingerprint 
identification and criminal justice information services and 
associated costs: Provided further, That any transfer made 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be subject to section 
505 of this Act.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For all necessary expenses, to include the cost of 
equipment, furniture, and information technology requirements, 
related to construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities 
and sites by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
conversion, modification and extension of Federally-owned 
buildings; and preliminary planning and design of projects; 
$239,915,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, including not to exceed $70,000 to meet 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character pursuant to 
28 U.S.C. 530C; and expenses for conducting drug education and 
training programs, including travel and related expenses for 
participants in such programs and the distribution of items of 
token value that promote the goals of such programs, 
$2,019,682,000; of which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; and of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives, not to exceed $40,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; for training of State 
and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the 
training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire 
accelerants detection; and for provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with or 
without reimbursement, $1,114,772,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' 
fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United 
States Code; and of which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no funds 
appropriated herein shall be available for salaries or 
administrative expenses in connection with consolidating or 
centralizing, within the Department of Justice, the records, or 
any portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of firearms 
maintained by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, 
That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay 
administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the United States to implement an amendment or 
amendments to 27 CFR 478.118 or to change the definition of 
``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 478.11 or remove any item from 
ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 1, 1994: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for 
relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 
925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for 
relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) 
of title 18, United States Code: Provided further, That no 
funds made available by this or any other Act may be used to 
transfer the functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau 
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to other agencies 
or Departments in fiscal year 2010: Provided further, That, 
beginning in fiscal year 2010 and thereafter, no funds 
appropriated under this or any other Act may be used to 
disclose part or all of the contents of the Firearms Trace 
System database maintained by the National Trace Center of the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives or any 
information required to be kept by licensees pursuant to 
section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, or required to 
be reported pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (7) of such section 
923(g), except to: (1) a Federal, State, local, or tribal law 
enforcement agency, or a Federal, State, or local prosecutor; 
or (2) a foreign law enforcement agency solely in connection 
with or for use in a criminal investigation or prosecution; or 
(3) a Federal agency for a national security or intelligence 
purpose; unless such disclosure of such data to any of the 
entities described in (1), (2) or (3) of this proviso would 
compromise the identity of any undercover law enforcement 
officer or confidential informant, or interfere with any case 
under investigation; and no person or entity described in (1), 
(2) or (3) shall knowingly and publicly disclose such data; and 
all such data shall be immune from legal process, shall not be 
subject to subpoena or other discovery, shall be inadmissible 
in evidence, and shall not be used, relied on, or disclosed in 
any manner, nor shall testimony or other evidence be permitted 
based on the data, in a civil action in any State (including 
the District of Columbia) or Federal court or in an 
administrative proceeding other than a proceeding commenced by 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to 
enforce the provisions of chapter 44 of such title, or a review 
of such an action or proceeding; except that this proviso shall 
not be construed to prevent: (A) the disclosure of statistical 
information concerning total production, importation, and 
exportation by each licensed importer (as defined in section 
921(a)(9) of such title) and licensed manufacturer (as defined 
in section 921(a)(10) of such title); (B) the sharing or 
exchange of such information among and between Federal, State, 
local, or foreign law enforcement agencies, Federal, State, or 
local prosecutors, and Federal national security, intelligence, 
or counterterrorism officials; or (C) the publication of annual 
statistical reports on products regulated by the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, including total 
production, importation, and exportation by each licensed 
importer (as so defined) and licensed manufacturer (as so 
defined), or statistical aggregate data regarding firearms 
traffickers and trafficking channels, or firearms misuse, 
felons, and trafficking investigations: Provided further, That 
no funds made available by this or any other Act shall be 
expended to promulgate or implement any rule requiring a 
physical inventory of any business licensed under section 923 
of title 18, United States Code: Provided further, That no 
funds under this Act may be used to electronically retrieve 
information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or 
any personal identification code: Provided further, That no 
funds authorized or made available under this or any other Act 
may be used to deny any application for a license under section 
923 of title 18, United States Code, or renewal of such a 
license due to a lack of business activity, provided that the 
applicant is otherwise eligible to receive such a license, and 
is eligible to report business income or to claim an income tax 
deduction for business expenses under the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings 
and sites by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law 
(including equipment for such buildings); conversion and 
extension of Federally-owned buildings; and preliminary 
planning and design of projects; $6,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         Federal Prison System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, including purchase (not to exceed 
831, of which 743 are for replacement only) and hire of law 
enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for the provision 
of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments, $6,086,231,000: Provided, That 
the Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources and 
Services Administration such amounts as may be necessary for 
direct expenditures by that Administration for medical relief 
for inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions: 
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal 
agent or fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the 
amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison 
System, furnish health services to individuals committed to the 
custody of the Federal Prison System: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available for necessary 
operations until September 30, 2011: Provided further, That, of 
the amounts provided for contract confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make 
payments in advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable 
agreements, and other expenses authorized by section 501(c) of 
the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (8 U.S.C. 1522 
note), for the care and security in the United States of Cuban 
and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Federal Prison System may accept donated property and 
services relating to the operation of the prison card program 
from a not-for-profit entity which has operated such program in 
the past notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-profit 
entity furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison 
System relating to the operation of pre-release services, 
halfway houses, or other custodial facilities.

                        BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and 
remodeling, and equipping of such facilities for penal and 
correctional use, including all necessary expenses incident 
thereto, by contract or force account; and constructing, 
remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and facilities at 
existing penal and correctional institutions, including all 
necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force 
account, $99,155,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not less than $73,769,000 shall be available only for 
modernization, maintenance and repair, and of which not to 
exceed $14,000,000 shall be available to construct areas for 
inmate work programs: Provided, That labor of United States 
prisoners may be used for work performed under this 
appropriation.

                FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of 
funds and borrowing authority available, and in accord with the 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments, without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 
31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for 
such corporation, including purchase (not to exceed five for 
replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

   LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, 
                              INCORPORATED

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated shall be available for its 
administrative expenses, and for services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be computed on 
an accrual basis to be determined in accordance with the 
corporation's current prescribed accounting system, and such 
amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of claims, 
and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or 
produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses 
in connection with acquisition, construction, operation, 
maintenance, improvement, protection, or disposition of 
facilities and other property belonging to the corporation or 
in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND PROSECUTION PROGRAMS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance for the prevention and prosecution of violence 
against women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) (``the 1968 
Act''); the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Victims of 
Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 
Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); 
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 
U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of 
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 
106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); and the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); and for related victims services, 
$418,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That except as otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 3 
percent of funds made available under this heading may be used 
for expenses related to evaluation, training, and technical 
assistance: Provided further, That of the amount provided 
(which shall be by transfer for programs administered by the 
Office of Justice Programs)--
            (1) $210,000,000 for grants to combat violence 
        against women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act, 
        of which--
                    (A) $18,000,000 shall be for transitional 
                housing assistance grants for victims of 
                domestic violence, stalking or sexual assault 
                as authorized by section 40299 of the 1994 Act; 
                and
                    (B) $3,000,000 shall be for the National 
                Institute of Justice for research and 
                evaluation of violence against women and 
                related issues addressed by grant programs of 
                the Office on Violence Against Women;
            (2) $60,000,000 for grants to encourage arrest 
        policies as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act;
            (3) $15,000,000 for sexual assault victims 
        assistance, as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 
        Act;
            (4) $41,000,000 for rural domestic violence and 
        child abuse enforcement assistance grants, as 
        authorized by section 40295 of the 1994 Act;
            (5) $9,500,000 for grants to reduce violent crimes 
        against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 
        of the 2005 Act;
            (6) $41,000,000 for legal assistance for victims, 
        as authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
            (7) $4,250,000 for enhanced training and services 
        to end violence against and abuse of women in later 
        life, as authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
            (8) $14,000,000 for the safe havens for children 
        program, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act;
            (9) $6,750,000 for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, 
        as authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (10) $3,000,000 for an engaging men and youth in 
        prevention program, as authorized by section 41305 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (11) $1,000,000 for tracking of violence against 
        Indian women, as authorized by section 905 of the 2005 
        Act and consistent with title I of the Adam Walsh Child 
        Protection and Safety Act of 2006;
            (12) $3,500,000 for services to advocate and 
        respond to youth, as authorized by section 41201 of the 
        1994 Act;
            (13) $3,000,000 for grants to assist children and 
        youth exposed to violence, as authorized by section 
        41303 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $3,000,000 for the court training and 
        improvements program, as authorized by section 41002 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (15) $1,000,000 for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic 
        violence, as authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 
        Act; and
            (16) $2,500,000 for the Supporting Teens through 
        Education and Protection program, as authorized by 
        section 41204 of the 1994 Act.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           JUSTICE ASSISTANCE

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ``the 1968 Act''; the Juvenile 
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 ``the 1974 
Act''; the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et 
seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); 
the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162); the Victims 
of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Victims of Crime 
Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248); the 
PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle 
D of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 
107-296), which may include research and development; and other 
programs (including the Statewide Automated Victim Notification 
Program); $235,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which--
            (1) $60,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics 
        programs, and other activities, as authorized by part C 
        of title I of the 1968 Act, of which $41,000,000 is for 
        the National Crime Victimization Survey;
            (2) $48,000,000 is for research, development, and 
        evaluation programs, and other activities as authorized 
        by part B of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (3) $12,000,000 is for the Statewide Victim 
        Notification System of the Bureau of Justice 
        Assistance;
            (4) $45,000,000 is for the Regional Information 
        Sharing System, as authorized by part M of title I of 
        the 1968 Act; and
            (5) $70,000,000 is for missing and exploited 
        children programs, including as authorized by sections 
        404(b) and 405(a) of the 1974 Act.

               STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 
108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and 
Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248); and the Victims of 
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 
106-386); the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); 
the Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual 
Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-403); and other programs; 
$1,534,768,000, to remain available until expended as follows--
            (1) $519,000,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial 
        Justice Assistance Grant program as authorized by 
        subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 1968 Act, (except 
        that section 1001(c), and the special rules for Puerto 
        Rico under section 505(g), of the 1968 Act, as amended, 
        shall not apply for purposes of this Act), of which 
        $5,000,000 is for use by the National Institute of 
        Justice in assisting units of local government to 
        identify, select, develop, modernize, and purchase new 
        technologies for use by law enforcement, and $3,000,000 
        is for a program to improve State and local law 
        enforcement intelligence capabilities including 
        antiterrorism training and training to ensure that 
        constitutional rights, civil liberties, civil rights, 
        and privacy interests are protected throughout the 
        intelligence process;
            (2) $330,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien 
        Assistance Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1231(i)(5));
            (3) $31,000,000 for the Southwest Border Prosecutor 
        Initiative to reimburse State, county, parish, tribal, 
        or municipal governments for costs associated with the 
        prosecution of criminal cases declined by local offices 
        of the United States Attorneys;
            (4) $185,268,000 for discretionary grants to 
        improve the functioning of the criminal justice system, 
        to prevent or combat juvenile delinquency, and to 
        assist victims of crime (other than compensation), 
        which shall be used for the projects, and in the 
        amounts, specified in the explanatory statement 
        accompanying this Act;
            (5) $40,000,000 for competitive grants to improve 
        the functioning of the criminal justice system, to 
        prevent or combat juvenile delinquency, and to assist 
        victims of crime (other than compensation);
            (6) $2,000,000 for the purposes described in the 
        Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program 
        (section 240001 of the 1994 Act);
            (7) $12,500,000 for victim services programs for 
        victims of trafficking, as authorized by section 
        107(b)(2) of Public Law 106-386 and for programs 
        authorized under Public Law 109-164;
            (8) $45,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by 
        section 1001(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (9) $7,000,000 for a program to monitor 
        prescription drugs and scheduled listed chemical 
        products;
            (10) $15,000,000 for prison rape prevention and 
        prosecution and other programs, as authorized by the 
        Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
        79);
            (11) $30,000,000 for grants for Residential 
        Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners, as 
        authorized by part S of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (12) $5,500,000 for the Capital Litigation 
        Improvement Grant Program, as authorized by section 426 
        of Public Law 108-405, and for grants for wrongful 
        conviction review;
            (13) $12,000,000 for mental health courts and adult 
        and juvenile collaboration program grants, as 
        authorized by parts V and HH of title I of the 1968 
        Act, and the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime 
        Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 
        (Public Law 110-416);
            (14) $50,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes, 
        of which--
                    (A) $10,000,000 shall be available for 
                grants under section 20109 of subtitle A of 
                title II of the 1994 Act;
                    (B) $25,000,000 shall be available for the 
                Tribal Courts Initiative;
                    (C) $12,000,000 shall be available for 
                tribal alcohol and substance abuse reduction 
                assistance grants; and
                    (D) $3,000,000 shall be available for 
                training and technical assistance and civil and 
                criminal legal assistance as authorized by 
                title I of Public Law 106-559;
            (15) $20,000,000 for economic, high technology and 
        Internet crime prevention grants, including as 
        authorized by section 401 of Public Law 110-403;
            (16) $15,000,000 for the court-appointed special 
        advocate program, as authorized by section 217 of the 
        1990 Act;
            (17) $2,500,000 for child abuse training programs 
        for judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized 
        by section 222 of the 1990 Act;
            (18) $3,000,000 for grants to improve the stalking 
        and domestic violence database, as authorized by 
        section 40602 of the 1994 Act;
            (19) $1,000,000 for analysis and research on 
        violence against Indian women, including as authorized 
        by section 904 of the 2005 Act;
            (20) $3,500,000 for training programs as authorized 
        by section 40152 of the 1994 Act, and for related local 
        demonstration projects;
            (21) $1,000,000 for grants for televised testimony, 
        as authorized by part N of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (22) $15,000,000 for programs to reduce gun crime 
        and gang violence;
            (23) $20,000,000 for grants to assist State and 
        tribal governments as authorized by the NICS 
        Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
        180);
            (24) $11,500,000 for the National Criminal History 
        Improvement program for grants to upgrade criminal 
        records;
            (25) $100,000,000 for offender reentry programs, as 
        authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 
        110-199), of which $37,000,000 is for grants for adult 
        and juvenile offender State and local reentry 
        demonstration projects, $15,000,000 is for grants for 
        mentoring and transitional services, $10,000,000 is for 
        reentry courts, $7,500,000 is for family-based 
        substance abuse treatment, $2,500,000 is for evaluation 
        and improvement of education at prisons, jails, and 
        juvenile facilities, $5,000,000 is for technology 
        careers training demonstration grants, $13,000,000 is 
        for offender reentry substance abuse and criminal 
        justice collaboration, and $10,000,000 is for prisoner 
        reentry research;
            (26) $10,000,000 for activities related to 
        comprehensive criminal justice reform and recidivism 
        reduction efforts by States;
            (27) $10,000,000 for implementation of a student 
        loan repayment assistance program pursuant to section 
        952 of Public Law 110-315;
            (28) $3,000,000 for the Northern Border Prosecutor 
        Initiative to reimburse State, county, parish, tribal, 
        or municipal governments for the costs associated with 
        the prosecution of criminal cases declined by local 
        offices of the United States Attorneys; and
            (29) $35,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic 
        Science Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of 
        the 1968 Act:

Provided,  That if a unit of local government uses any of the 
funds made available under this heading to increase the number 
of law enforcement officers, the unit of local government will 
achieve a net gain in the number of law enforcement officers 
who perform non-administrative public sector safety service.

                       WEED AND SEED PROGRAM FUND

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related 
expenses of the Office of Weed and Seed Strategies, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 103 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968.

                       JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''), the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''), the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162), the Missing 
Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et seq.); the 
Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation 
of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the Victims 
of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Adam Walsh 
Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248); 
the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401), and 
other juvenile justice programs, $423,595,000, to remain 
available until expended as follows--
            (1) $75,000,000 for programs authorized by section 
        221 of the 1974 Act, and for training and technical 
        assistance to assist small, non-profit organizations 
        with the Federal grants process;
            (2) $91,095,000 for grants and projects, as 
        authorized by sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act, 
        which shall be used for the projects, and in the 
        amounts, specified in the explanatory statement 
        accompanying this Act;
            (3) $100,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (4) $65,000,000 for delinquency prevention, as 
        authorized by section 505 of the 1974 Act, of which, 
        pursuant to sections 261 and 262 thereof--
                    (A) $25,000,000 shall be for the Tribal 
                Youth Program;
                    (B) $10,000,000 shall be for a gang 
                education initiative; and
                    (C) $25,000,000 shall be for grants of 
                $360,000 to each State and $4,840,000 shall be 
                available for discretionary grants, for 
                programs and activities to enforce State laws 
                prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages to 
                minors or the purchase or consumption of 
                alcoholic beverages by minors, for prevention 
                and reduction of consumption of alcoholic 
                beverages by minors, and for technical 
                assistance and training;
            (5) $22,500,000 for programs authorized by the 
        Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
            (6) $55,000,000 for the Juvenile Accountability 
        Block Grants program as authorized by part R of title I 
        of the 1968 Act and Guam shall be considered a State;
            (7) $10,000,000 for community-based violence 
        prevention initiatives; and
            (8) $5,000,000 for the Safe Start Program, as 
        authorized by the 1974 Act:
Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be 
used for research, evaluation, and statistics activities 
designed to benefit the programs or activities authorized: 
Provided further, That not more than 2 percent of each amount 
may be used for training and technical assistance: Provided 
further, That the previous two provisos shall not apply to 
grants and projects authorized by sections 261 and 262 of the 
1974 Act.

                     PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 
1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, such sums as are necessary (including 
amounts for administrative costs, which amounts shall be paid 
to the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account), to remain available 
until expended; and $9,100,000 for payments authorized by 
section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational assistance 
authorized by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of 
this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
emergent circumstances require additional funding for such 
disability and education payments, the Attorney General may 
transfer such amounts to ``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' 
from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
with the procedures set forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and 
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); 
the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162); subtitle D of 
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
296), which may include research and development; and the USA 
PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-177); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public 
Law 110-180); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (Public Law 109-248) (the ``Adam Walsh Act''); and the 
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405), $791,608,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That any balances 
made available through prior year deobligations shall only be 
available in accordance with section 505 of this Act. Of the 
amount provided (which shall be by transfer, for programs 
administered by the Office of Justice Programs)--
            (1) $30,000,000 for the matching grant program for 
        law enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 
        2501 of title I of the 1968 Act: Provided, That 
        $1,500,000 is for related research, testing, and 
        evaluation programs;
            (2) $40,385,000 for grants to entities described in 
        section 1701 of title I of the 1968 Act, to address 
        public safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, 
        and use in hot spots as authorized by section 754 of 
        Public Law 109-177, and for other anti-methamphetamine-
        related activities: Provided, That within the amounts 
        appropriated $25,385,000 shall be used for the 
        projects, and in the amounts, specified in the 
        explanatory statement accompanying this Act: Provided 
        further, That within the amounts appropriated 
        $10,000,000 shall be transferred to the Drug 
        Enforcement Administration upon enactment of this Act: 
        Provided further, That within the amounts appropriated 
        $5,000,000 is for anti-methamphetamine-related 
        activities in Indian Country;
            (3) $170,223,000 for a law enforcement technologies 
        and interoperable communications program, and related 
        law enforcement and public safety equipment: Provided, 
        That within the amounts appropriated, $168,723,000 
        shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, 
        specified in the explanatory statement accompanying 
        this Act: Provided further, That of the amounts 
        provided under this heading $1,500,000 is transferred 
        directly to the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards from 
        the Community Oriented Policing Services Office for 
        research, testing, and evaluation programs;
            (4) $161,000,000 for DNA related and forensic 
        programs and activities, of which--
                    (A) $151,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and 
                capacity enhancement program and for other 
                local, State, and Federal forensic activities 
                including the purposes of section 2 of the DNA 
                Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (the 
                Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program);
                    (B) $5,000,000 is for the purposes 
                described in the Kirk Bloodsworth Post-
                Conviction DNA Testing Program (Public Law 108-
                405, section 412); and
                    (C) $5,000,000 is for Sexual Assault 
                Forensic Exam Program Grants as authorized by 
                Public Law 108-405, section 304;
            (5) $40,000,000 for improving tribal law 
        enforcement, including equipment and training;
            (6) $12,000,000 for community policing development 
        activities;
            (7) $24,000,000 for a national grant program the 
        purpose of which is to assist State and local law 
        enforcement to locate, arrest and prosecute child 
        sexual predators and exploiters, and to enforce sex 
        offender registration laws described in section 1701(b) 
        of the 1968 Act, of which--
                    (A) $11,000,000 is for sex offender 
                management assistance as authorized by the Adam 
                Walsh Act and the Violent Crime Control Act of 
                1994 (Public Law 103-322); and
                    (B) $1,000,000 is for the National Sex 
                Offender Public Registry;
            (8) $16,000,000 for expenses authorized by part AA 
        of the 1968 Act (Secure our Schools); and
            (9) $298,000,000 for grants under section 1701 of 
        title I of the 1968 Act (42 U.S.C. 3796dd) for the 
        hiring and rehiring of additional career law 
        enforcement officers under part Q of such title 
        notwithstanding subsections (g) and (i) of such section 
        and notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 3796dd-3(c).

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses, not elsewhere specified in this 
title, for management and administration of programs within the 
Office on Violence Against Women, the Office of Justice 
Programs and the Community Oriented Policing Services Office, 
$192,388,000, of which not to exceed $15,708,000 shall be 
available for the Office on Violence Against Women; not to 
exceed $139,218,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Justice Programs; not to exceed $37,462,000 shall be available 
for the Community Oriented Policing Services Office: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding section 109 of title I of Public Law 90-
351, an additional amount, not to exceed $21,000,000 shall be 
available for authorized activities of the Office of Audit, 
Assessment, and Management: Provided further, That the total 
amount available for management and administration of such 
programs shall not exceed $213,388,000: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a determination 
by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances require 
additional funding for management and administration of such 
programs, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
``Salaries and Expenses'' from available appropriations for the 
current fiscal year for the Department of Justice as may be 
necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided further, 
That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
in this title for official reception and representation 
expenses, a total of not to exceed $75,000 from funds 
appropriated to the Department of Justice in this title shall 
be available to the Attorney General for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
carried to term, or in the case of rape: Provided, That should 
this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title 
shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
in any way the performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove 
the obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to 
provide escort services necessary for a female inmate to 
receive such service outside the Federal facility: Provided, 
That nothing in this section in any way diminishes the effect 
of section 203 intended to address the philosophical beliefs of 
individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of Justice in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of 
funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 206.  The Attorney General is authorized to extend 
through September 30, 2011, the Personnel Management 
Demonstration Project transferred to the Attorney General 
pursuant to section 1115 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
Public Law 107-296 (6 U.S.C. 533) without limitation on the 
number of employees or the positions covered.
    Sec. 207.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
Public Law 102-395 section 102(b) shall extend to the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in the conduct of 
undercover investigative operations and shall apply without 
fiscal year limitation with respect to any undercover 
investigative operation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives that is necessary for the detection and 
prosecution of crimes against the United States.
    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act may be used for the purpose 
of transporting an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to 
conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than 
to a prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau 
of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
    Sec. 209. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television 
services, to rent or purchase videocassettes, videocassette 
recorders, or other audiovisual or electronic equipment used 
primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) The preceding sentence does not preclude the renting, 
maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic equipment 
for inmate training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available under this 
title shall be obligated or expended for Sentinel, or for any 
other major new or enhanced information technology program 
having total estimated development costs in excess of 
$100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the 
investment review board certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the information technology program has 
appropriate program management and contractor oversight 
mechanisms in place, and that the program is compatible with 
the enterprise architecture of the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 211.  The notification thresholds and procedures set 
forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations from 
the amounts designated for specific activities in this Act and 
accompanying statement, and to any use of deobligated balances 
of funds provided under this title in previous years.
    Sec. 212.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or 
approve a public-private competition under the Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any successor 
administrative regulation, directive, or policy for work 
performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
funds shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses 
of any United States Attorney assigned dual or additional 
responsibilities by the Attorney General or his designee that 
exempt that United States Attorney from the residency 
requirements of 28 U.S.C. 545.
    Sec. 214.  None of the funds appropriated in this or any 
other Act shall be obligated for the initiation of a future 
phase of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Sentinel program 
until the Attorney General certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that existing phases currently under contract 
for development or fielding have completed a majority of the 
work for that phase under the performance measurement baseline 
validated by the integrated baseline review conducted in 2008: 
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to planning and 
design activities for future phases: Provided further, That the 
Bureau will notify the Committees on Appropriations of any 
significant changes to the baseline.
    Sec. 215.  In addition to any amounts that otherwise may be 
available (or authorized to be made available) by law, with 
respect to funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Justice Assistance'', ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', ``Weed and Seed'', ``Juvenile Justice Programs'', 
and ``Community Oriented Policing Services''--
            (1) Up to 3 percent of funds made available to the 
        Office of Justice Programs for grants or reimbursement 
        may be used to provide training and technical 
        assistance; and
            (2) Up to 1 percent of funds made available to such 
        Office for formula grants under such headings may be 
        used for research or statistical purposes by the 
        National Institute of Justice or the Bureau of Justice 
        Statistics, pursuant to, respectively, sections 201 and 
        202, and sections 301 and 302 of title I of Public Law 
        90-351.
    Sec. 216.  The Attorney General may, upon request by a 
grantee and based upon a determination of fiscal hardship, 
waive the requirements of paragraph (1) of section 2976(g) of 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 3797w(g)(1)) with respect to funds appropriated in this 
or any other Act making appropriations for fiscal years 2009 
and 2010 for Adult and Juvenile Offender State and Local 
Reentry Demonstration Projects authorized under part FF of such 
Act of 1968.
    Sec. 217.  Section 5759 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsection (e).
    Sec. 218. (a) The Attorney General shall submit quarterly 
reports to the Inspector General of the Department of Justice 
regarding the costs and contracting procedures relating to each 
conference held by the Department of Justice during fiscal year 
2010 for which the cost to the Government was more than 
$20,000.
    (b) Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, for each conference described in that subsection held 
during the applicable quarter--
            (1) a description of the subject of and number of 
        participants attending that conference;
            (2) a detailed statement of the costs to the 
        Government relating to that conference, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services; 
                and
                    (C) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to that 
                conference; and
            (3) a description of the contracting procedures 
        relating to that conference, including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a 
                competitive basis for that conference; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison 
                conducted by the Department of Justice in 
                evaluating potential contractors for that 
                conference.
    Sec. 219. (a) Subchapter IV of chapter 57 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``Sec. 5761. Foreign language proficiency pay awards for the Federal 
                    Bureau of Investigation

    ``The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation may, 
under regulations prescribed by the Director, pay a cash award 
of up to 10 percent of basic pay to any Bureau employee who 
maintains proficiency in a language or languages critical to 
the mission or who uses one or more foreign languages in the 
performance of official duties.''.
    (b) The analysis for chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``5761. Foreign language proficiency pay awards for the Federal Bureau 
          of Investigation.''

    Sec. 220.  For purposes of the allocation under section 
505(d)(1) of title I of Public Law 90-351 (42 U.S.C. 
3755(d)(1)) for fiscal year 2010, the Attorney General is 
authorized to waive the application of section 505(e)(3) (42 
U.S.C. 3755(e)(3)) to any non-reporting unit of local 
government that--
            (1) was eligible to receive an allocation under 
        section 505(d)(2)(B) (42 U.S.C. 3755(d)(2)(B));
            (2) agrees to begin to report timely data on part I 
        violent crimes of the Uniform Crime Reports to the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation by not later than the 
        end of such fiscal year; and
            (3) does so begin in accordance with such 
        agreement.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National 
Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act 
of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601-6671), hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to 
exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia, $7,000,000.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                SCIENCE

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of science research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $4,469,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011.

                              AERONAUTICS

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of aeronautics research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $501,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011.

                              EXPLORATION

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of exploration research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management, 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,746,300,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 505 of this Act, none of the funds provided herein and 
from prior years that remain available for obligation during 
fiscal year 2010 shall be available for the termination or 
elimination of any program, project or activity of the 
architecture for the Constellation program nor shall such funds 
be available to create or initiate a new program, project or 
activity, unless such program termination, elimination, 
creation, or initiation is provided in subsequent 
appropriations Acts.

                            SPACE OPERATIONS

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of space operations research and 
development activities, including research, development, 
operations, support and services; space flight, spacecraft 
control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; maintenance; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $6,146,800,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading, not more than $3,157,100,000 shall 
be for Space Shuttle operations, production, research, 
development, and support, not more than $2,317,000,000 shall be 
for International Space Station operations, production, 
research, development, and support, and not more than 
$751,500,000 shall be for Space and Flight Support.

                               EDUCATION

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in 
carrying out aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, 
operations, support, and services; program management; 
personnel and related costs, uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $182,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011.

                          CROSS AGENCY SUPPORT

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of science, aeronautics, exploration, space 
operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and 
services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
communications activities; program management; personnel and 
related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; purchase and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $70,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,194,000,000: Provided, That not 
more than $2,206,300,000 shall be available for center 
management and operations: Provided further, That not less than 
$40,000,000 shall be available for independent verification and 
validation activities: Provided further, That within the 
amounts appropriated, $63,000,000 shall be used for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified in the explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act.

       CONSTRUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND REMEDIATION

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and 
modification of facilities, construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, facility planning and design, 
and restoration, and acquisition or condemnation of real 
property, as authorized by law, and environmental compliance 
and restoration, $448,300,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2015: Provided, That within the funds provided, 
$13,700,000 shall be available to support science research and 
development activities; $90,800,000 shall be available to 
support exploration research and development activities; 
$27,300,000 shall be available to support space operations 
research and development activities; and $316,500,000 shall be 
available for cross agency support activities: Provided 
further, That hereafter, notwithstanding section 315 of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (42 U.S.C. 2459j), 
all proceeds from leases entered into under that section shall 
be deposited into this account and shall be available for a 
period of 5 years, to the extent provided in annual 
appropriations Acts: Provided further, That such proceeds shall 
be available for obligation for fiscal year 2010 in an amount 
not to exceed $6,226,000: Provided further, That each annual 
budget request shall include an annual estimate of gross 
receipts and collections and proposed use of all funds 
collected pursuant to section 315 of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Act of 1958 (42 U.S.C. 2459j).

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $36,400,000.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

    Funds for announced prizes otherwise authorized shall 
remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until the 
prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
for the current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration in this Act may be transferred between 
such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any transfer pursuant to 
this provision shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth 
in that section.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds shall 
be used to implement by Reduction in Force or other involuntary 
separations (except for cause) by the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration prior to September 30, 2010.
    The unexpired balances of the Science, Aeronautics, and 
Exploration account, for activities for which funds are 
provided under this Act, may be transferred to the new accounts 
established in this Act that provide such activity. Balances so 
transferred shall be merged with the funds in the newly 
established accounts, but shall be available under the same 
terms, conditions and period of time as previously 
appropriated.

                      National Science Foundation

                    RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and 
the Act to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 
1880-1881); services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
maintenance and operation of aircraft and purchase of flight 
services for research support; acquisition of aircraft; and 
authorized travel; $5,617,920,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011, of which not to exceed $570,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for polar research and 
operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal 
agencies for operational and science support and logistical and 
other related activities for the United States Antarctic 
program: Provided, That from funds specified in the fiscal year 
2010 budget request for icebreaking services, $54,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the U.S. Coast Guard ``Operating Expenses'' 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
receipts for scientific support services and materials 
furnished by the National Research Centers and other National 
Science Foundation supported research facilities may be 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That not less 
than $147,120,000 shall be available for activities authorized 
by section 7002(c)(2)(A)(iv) of Public Law 110-69.

          MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, 
facilities, and other such capital assets pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1861-1875), including authorized travel, $117,290,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the 
funds may be used to reimburse the Judgment Fund.

                     EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics 
and engineering education and human resources programs and 
activities pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 
1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, authorized travel, and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $872,760,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That not 
less than $55,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
activities authorized by section 7030 of Public Law 110-69: 
Provided further, That not less than $32,000,000 shall be 
available until expended for the Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities Undergraduate Program.

                 AGENCY OPERATIONS AND AWARD MANAGEMENT

    For agency operations and award management necessary in 
carrying out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $9,200 
for official reception and representation expenses; uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and 
reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for 
security guard services; $300,000,000: Provided, That contracts 
may be entered into under this heading in fiscal year 2010 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other 
services, to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, and the 
employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code) involved in carrying out section 4 
of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,540,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,800 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$14,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations 
Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,400,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to employ in excess of four full-time individuals 
under Schedule C of the Excepted Service exclusive of one 
special assistant for each Commissioner: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used 
to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with 
the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable 
days.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the 
Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic Information 
Non-Discrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), the 
ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); nonmonetary 
awards to private citizens; and not to exceed $30,000,000 for 
payments to State and local enforcement agencies for authorized 
services to the Commission, $367,303,000: Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to make available for official 
reception and representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from 
available funds: Provided further, That the Commission may take 
no action to implement any workforce repositioning, 
restructuring, or reorganization until such time as the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations have been notified of 
such proposals, in accordance with the reprogramming 
requirements of section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That 
the Chair is authorized to accept and use any gift or donation 
to carry out the work of the Commission.

                     International Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade 
Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed 
$2,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$81,860,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out 
the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 
$420,000,000, of which $394,400,000 is for basic field programs 
and required independent audits; $4,200,000 is for the Office 
of Inspector General, of which such amounts as may be necessary 
may be used to conduct additional audits of recipients; 
$17,000,000 is for management and grants oversight; $3,400,000 
is for client self-help and information technology; and 
$1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance: Provided, That the 
Legal Services Corporation may continue to provide locality pay 
to officers and employees at a rate no greater than that 
provided by the Federal Government to Washington, DC-based 
employees as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5304, notwithstanding 
section 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corporation Act, 42 
U.S.C. 2996(d): Provided further, That the authorities provided 
in section 205 of this Act shall be applicable to the Legal 
Services Corporation.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose 
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions 
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law 
105-119, and all funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms and 
conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be 
deemed to refer instead to 2009 and 2010, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of Public Law 92-522, $3,250,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
Trade Representative, including the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and the employment of experts and consultants as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $47,826,000, of which $1,000,000 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $124,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That negotiations 
shall be conducted within the World Trade Organization to 
recognize the right of members to distribute monies collected 
from antidumping and countervailing duties: Provided further, 
That negotiations shall be conducted within the World Trade 
Organization consistent with the negotiating objectives 
contained in the Trade Act of 2002, Public Law 107-210.

                        State Justice Institute

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 
1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $5,131,000, of which $500,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That 
not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses.
    

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise 
provided under existing law, or under existing Executive order 
issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application 
of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be held 
invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of each 
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to 
which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through the 
reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project or activity, 
        unless the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
        reprogramming of funds;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
        any project or activity for which funds have been 
        denied or restricted by this Act, unless the House and 
        Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 
        days in advance of such reprogramming of funds;
            (4) relocates an office or employees, unless the 
        House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
        funds;
            (5) reorganizes or renames offices, programs or 
        activities, unless the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
        reprogramming of funds;
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
        activities presently performed by Federal employees, 
        unless the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
        reprogramming of funds;
            (7) proposes to use funds directed for a specific 
        activity by either the House or Senate Committee on 
        Appropriations for a different purpose, unless the 
        House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
        funds;
            (8) augments funds for existing programs, projects 
        or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
        whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for 
        any program, project or activity, or numbers of 
        personnel by 10 percent as approved by Congress, unless 
        the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
        funds; or
            (9) results from any general savings, including 
        savings from a reduction in personnel, which would 
        result in a change in existing programs, projects or 
        activities as approved by Congress, unless the House 
        and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 
        days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds in provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through the 
reprogramming of funds after August 1, except in extraordinary 
circumstances, and only after the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations are notified 30 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 506.  Hereafter, none of the funds made available in 
this or any other Act may be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any guidelines of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission covering harassment based on religion, when it is 
made known to the Federal entity or official to which such 
funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ in 
any respect from the proposed guidelines published by the 
Commission on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 507.  If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label 
bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription 
with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the 
United States that is not made in the United States, the person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made 
with funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the 
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described 
in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 508.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
National Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, shall provide to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations a quarterly accounting of the 
cumulative balances of any unobligated funds that were received 
by such agency during any previous fiscal year.
    Sec. 509.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel 
actions taken in response to funding reductions included in 
this Act shall be absorbed within the total budgetary resources 
available to such department or agency: Provided, That the 
authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in 
addition to authorities included elsewhere in this Act: 
Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth 
in that section.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco 
products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign 
country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally 
to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this 
Act or any other provision of law may be used for--
            (1) the implementation of any tax or fee in 
        connection with the implementation of subsection 922(t) 
        of title 18, United States Code; and
            (2) any system to implement subsection 922(t) of 
        title 18, United States Code, that does not require and 
        result in the destruction of any identifying 
        information submitted by or on behalf of any person who 
        has been determined not to be prohibited from 
        possessing or receiving a firearm no more than 24 hours 
        after the system advises a Federal firearms licensee 
        that possession or receipt of a firearm by the 
        prospective transferee would not violate subsection (g) 
        or (n) of section 922 of title 18, United States Code, 
        or State law.
    Sec. 512.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
amounts deposited or available in the Fund established under 42 
U.S.C. 10601 in any fiscal year in excess of $705,000,000 shall 
not be available for obligation until the following fiscal 
year.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate 
against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of students 
who participate in programs for which financial assistance is 
provided from those funds, or of the parents or legal guardians 
of such students.
    Sec. 514.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 515.  Any funds provided in this Act used to implement 
E-Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set 
forth in section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 516. (a) Tracing studies conducted by the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are released without 
adequate disclaimers regarding the limitations of the data.
    (b) The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
shall include in all such data releases, language similar to 
the following that would make clear that trace data cannot be 
used to draw broad conclusions about firearms-related crime:
            (1) Firearm traces are designed to assist law 
        enforcement authorities in conducting investigations by 
        tracking the sale and possession of specific firearms. 
        Law enforcement agencies may request firearms traces 
        for any reason, and those reasons are not necessarily 
        reported to the Federal Government. Not all firearms 
        used in crime are traced and not all firearms traced 
        are used in crime.
            (2) Firearms selected for tracing are not chosen 
        for purposes of determining which types, makes, or 
        models of firearms are used for illicit purposes. The 
        firearms selected do not constitute a random sample and 
        should not be considered representative of the larger 
        universe of all firearms used by criminals, or any 
        subset of that universe. Firearms are normally traced 
        to the first retail seller, and sources reported for 
        firearms traced do not necessarily represent the 
        sources or methods by which firearms in general are 
        acquired for use in crime.
    Sec. 517. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of 
Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, and 
the Legal Services Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant 
to the Inspector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or 
contracts for which funds are appropriated by this Act, and 
shall submit reports to Congress on the progress of such 
audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days 
after initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter 
until any such audit is completed.
    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit 
described in subsection (a) by an Inspector General is 
completed, the Secretary, Attorney General, Administrator, 
Director, or President, as appropriate, shall make the results 
of the audit available to the public on the Internet website 
maintained by the Department, Administration, Foundation, or 
Corporation, respectively. The results shall be made available 
in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 
        5, United States Code; and
            (2) sensitive personal information for any 
        individual, the public access to which could be used to 
        commit identity theft or for other inappropriate or 
        unlawful purposes.
    (c) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by 
this Act may not be used for the purpose of defraying the costs 
of a banquet or conference that is not directly and 
programmatically related to the purpose for which the grant or 
contract was awarded, such as a banquet or conference held in 
connection with planning, training, assessment, review, or 
other routine purposes related to a project funded by the grant 
or contract.
    (d) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by 
amounts appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to 
the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the 
Administrator, Director, or President, as appropriate, 
certifying that no funds derived from the grant or contract 
will be made available through a subcontract or in any other 
manner to another person who has a financial interest in the 
person awarded the grant or contract.
    (e) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this 
section shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
consultation with the Director of the Office of Government 
Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules and 
requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in such 
subsections, consistently apply under the executive branch 
ethics program to all Federal departments, agencies, and 
entities.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used to issue patents on claims 
directed to or encompassing a human organism.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture by any official or contract employee of the 
United States Government.
    Sec. 520. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
treaty, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act or any other Act may be expended or 
obligated by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate 
an officer or employee of the United States in connection with 
requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms 
listed in Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of 
Federal Regulations (International Trafficking in Arms 
Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 1, 2005) 
with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) of 
this section are met by the exporting party for such articles.
    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export 
license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any 
        Shipper's Export Declaration or notification letter 
        required by law, or from being otherwise eligible under 
        the laws of the United States to possess, ship, 
        transport, or export the articles enumerated in 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license 
        of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components 
                and parts for such firearms, other than for end 
                use by the Federal Government, or a Provincial 
                or Municipal Government of Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) 
                or complete breech mechanisms for any firearm 
                listed in Category I, other than for end use by 
                the Federal Government, or a Provincial or 
                Municipal Government of Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to 
                another foreign destination.
    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors 
of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
temporary export without a license of any unclassified articles 
specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in Canada or 
return to the United States, or temporary import of Canadian-
origin items from Canada for end use in the United States or 
return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) The President may require export licenses under this 
section on a temporary basis if the President determines, upon 
publication first in the Federal Register, that the Government 
of Canada has implemented or maintained inadequate import 
controls for the articles specified in subsection (a), such 
that a significant diversion of such articles has and continues 
to take place for use in international terrorism or in the 
escalation of a conflict in another nation. The President shall 
terminate the requirements of a license when reasons for the 
temporary requirements have ceased.
    Sec. 521.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other Act 
shall obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay 
administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the United States to deny any application submitted 
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 
27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import United 
States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or 
ammunition.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade 
agreement the text of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United 
        States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United 
        States-Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United 
        States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to authorize or issue a national security letter in 
contravention of any of the following laws authorizing the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue national security 
letters: The Right to Financial Privacy Act; The Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act; The Fair Credit Reporting Act; The 
National Security Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; and the laws 
amended by these Acts.
    Sec. 524.  If at any time during any quarter, the program 
manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the Departments 
of Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation totaling 
more than $75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe that the 
total program cost has increased by 10 percent, the program 
manager shall immediately inform the Secretary, Administrator, 
or Director. The Secretary, Administrator, or Director shall 
notify the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 
30 days in writing of such increase, and shall include in such 
notice: the date on which such determination was made; a 
statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken 
and proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the 
project; changes made in the performance or schedule milestones 
and the degree to which such changes have contributed to the 
increase in total program costs or procurement costs; new 
estimates of the total project or procurement costs; and a 
statement validating that the project's management structure is 
adequate to control total project or procurement costs.
    Sec. 525.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of 
section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2010 until the enactment of the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 526.  The Departments, agencies, and commissions 
funded under this Act, shall establish and maintain on the 
homepages of their Internet websites--
            (1) a direct link to the Internet websites of their 
        Offices of Inspectors General; and
            (2) a mechanism on the Offices of Inspectors 
        General website by which individuals may anonymously 
        report cases of waste, fraud, or abuse with respect to 
        those Departments, agencies, and commissions.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in 
an amount greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess 
of such amount unless the prospective contractor or grantee 
certifies in writing to the agency awarding the contract or 
grant that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the 
contractor or grantee has filed all Federal tax returns 
required during the three years preceding the certification, 
has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax 
assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless 
the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or 
offer in compromise that has been approved by the Internal 
Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the 
subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial 
proceeding.
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used in a manner that is 
inconsistent with the principal negotiating objective of the 
United States with respect to trade remedy laws to preserve the 
ability of the United States--
            (1) to enforce vigorously its trade laws, including 
        antidumping, countervailing duty, and safeguard laws;
            (2) to avoid agreements that--
                    (A) lessen the effectiveness of domestic 
                and international disciplines on unfair trade, 
                especially dumping and subsidies; or
                    (B) lessen the effectiveness of domestic 
                and international safeguard provisions, in 
                order to ensure that United States workers, 
                agricultural producers, and firms can compete 
                fully on fair terms and enjoy the benefits of 
                reciprocal trade concessions; and
            (3) to address and remedy market distortions that 
        lead to dumping and subsidization, including 
        overcapacity, cartelization, and market-access 
        barriers.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 529. (a) Of the unobligated balances available to the 
Department of Justice from prior appropriations, the following 
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than September 30, 2010, 
from the following accounts in the specified amounts--
            (1) ``Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
        $387,200,000;
            (2) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $50,000,000;
            (3) ``Office of Justice Programs'', $54,000,000; 
        and
            (4) ``Community Oriented Policing Services'', 
        $40,000,000.
    (b) Within 30 days of enactment of this Act, the Department 
of Justice shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate a report specifying 
the amount of each rescission made pursuant to this section.
    (c) The rescissions contained in this section shall not 
apply to funds provided in this Act.
    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to purchase first class or premium airline travel in 
contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of 
title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
than 50 employees from a Federal department or agency at any 
single conference occurring outside the United States.
    Sec. 532. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used to release an individual who is 
detained, as of June 24, 2009, at Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, into the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, 
or the District of Columbia, into any of the United States 
territories of Guam, American Samoa (AS), the United States 
Virgin Islands (USVI), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI).
    (b) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to transfer an individual who is detained, as 
of June 24, 2009, at Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, into 
the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, or the District 
of Columbia, into any of the United States territories of Guam, 
American Samoa (AS), the United States Virgin Islands (USVI), 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), for the purpose of detention, 
except as provided in subsection (c).
    (c) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to transfer an individual who is detained, as 
of June 24, 2009, at Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, into 
the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, or the District 
of Columbia, into any of the United States territories of Guam, 
American Samoa (AS), the United States Virgin Islands (USVI), 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), for the purposes of 
prosecuting such individual, or detaining such individual 
during legal proceedings, until 45 days after the plan 
described in subsection (d) is received.
    (d) The President shall submit to Congress, in classified 
form, a plan regarding the proposed disposition of any 
individual covered by subsection (c) who is detained as of June 
24, 2009. Such plan shall include, at a minimum, each of the 
following for each such individual:
            (1) A determination of the risk that the individual 
        might instigate an act of terrorism within the 
        continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the District 
        of Columbia, or the United States territories if the 
        individual were so transferred.
            (2) A determination of the risk that the individual 
        might advocate, coerce, or incite violent extremism, 
        ideologically motivated criminal activity, or acts of 
        terrorism, among inmate populations at incarceration 
        facilities within the continental United States, 
        Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, or the United 
        States territories if the individual were transferred 
        to such a facility.
            (3) The costs associated with transferring the 
        individual in question.
            (4) The legal rationale and associated court 
        demands for transfer.
            (5) A plan for mitigation of any risks described in 
        paragraphs (1), (2), and (7).
            (6) A copy of a notification to the Governor of the 
        State to which the individual will be transferred, to 
        the Mayor of the District of Columbia if the individual 
        will be transferred to the District of Columbia, or to 
        any United States territories with a certification by 
        the Attorney General of the United States in classified 
        form at least 14 days prior to such transfer (together 
        with supporting documentation and justification) that 
        the individual poses little or no security risk to the 
        United States.
            (7) An assessment of any risk to the national 
        security of the United States or its citizens, 
        including members of the Armed Services of the United 
        States, that is posed by such transfer and the actions 
        taken to mitigate such risk.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to transfer or release an individual detained 
at Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of June 24, 2009, to 
the country of such individual's nationality or last habitual 
residence or to any other country other than the United States 
or to a freely associated State, unless the President submits 
to the Congress, in classified form, at least 15 days prior to 
such transfer or release, the following information:
            (1) The name of any individual to be transferred or 
        released and the country or the freely associated State 
        to which such individual is to be transferred or 
        released.
            (2) An assessment of any risk to the national 
        security of the United States or its citizens, 
        including members of the Armed Services of the United 
        States, that is posed by such transfer or release and 
        the actions taken to mitigate such risk.
            (3) The terms of any agreement with the country or 
        the freely associated State for the acceptance of such 
        individual, including the amount of any financial 
        assistance related to such agreement.
    (f) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to provide any immigration benefit (including a visa, 
admission into the United States or any of the United States 
territories, parole into the United States or any of the United 
States territories (other than parole for the purposes of 
prosecution and related detention), or classification as a 
refugee or applicant for asylum) to any individual who is 
detained, as of June 24, 2009, at Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (g) In this section, the term ``freely associated States'' 
means the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands (RMI), and the Republic of Palau.
    (h) Prior to the termination of detention operations at 
Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the President shall submit 
to the Congress a report in classified form describing the 
disposition or legal status of each individual detained at the 
facility as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 533.  Section 504(a) of the Departments of Commerce, 
Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1996 (as contained in Public Law 104-134) 
is amended by striking paragraph (13).
    Sec. 534.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
may be distributed to the Association of Community 
Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) or its subsidiaries.
    Sec. 535. (a) The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall conduct a review and audit of Federal funds received by 
the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now 
(referred to in this section as ``ACORN'') or any subsidiary or 
affiliate of ACORN to determine--
            (1) whether any Federal funds were misused and, if 
        so, the total amount of Federal funds involved and how 
        such funds were misused;
            (2) what steps, if any, have been taken to recover 
        any Federal funds that were misused;
            (3) what steps should be taken to prevent the 
        misuse of any Federal funds; and
            (4) whether all necessary steps have been taken to 
        prevent the misuse of any Federal funds.
    (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a 
report on the results of the audit required under subsection 
(a), along with recommendations for Federal agency reforms.
    Sec. 536.  To the extent practicable, funds made available 
in this Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that are 
``Energy Star'' qualified or have the ``Federal Energy 
Management Program'' designation.
    Sec. 537.  The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall instruct any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government receiving funds 
appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed balances in 
expired grant accounts and include in its annual performance 
plan and performance and accountability reports the following:
            (1) Details on future action the department, 
        agency, or instrumentality will take to resolve 
        undisbursed balances in expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts that may be returned to the 
        Treasury of the United States.
            (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the 
        total number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed 
        balances (on the first day of each fiscal year) for the 
        department, agency, or instrumentality and the total 
        finances that have not been obligated to a specific 
        project remaining in the accounts.
    Sec. 538.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to relocate the Bureau of the Census or employees from 
the Department of Commerce to the jurisdiction of the Executive 
Office of the President.
    Sec. 539.  Specific projects contained in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
accompanying this Act (H. Rept. 111-149) that are considered 
congressional earmarks for purposes of clause 9 of rule XXI of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, when intended to be 
awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under a full 
and open competition.
    This division may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010''.

  DIVISION C FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices 
including operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building 
and Annex; hire of passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, 
repairs, and improvements of, and purchase of commercial 
insurance policies for, real properties leased or owned 
overseas, when necessary for the performance of official 
business, $304,888,000, of which not to exceed $21,983,000 is 
for executive direction program activities; not to exceed 
$47,249,000 is for economic policies and programs activities, 
including $1,000,000 that shall be transferred to the National 
Academy of Sciences for a study by the Board on Mathematical 
Sciences and Their Applications on the long-term economic 
effects of the aging population in the United States, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, and $1,500,000 that shall 
be transferred to the National Academy of Sciences for a carbon 
audit of the tax code as authorized in section 117 of the 
Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
343), to remain available until September 30, 2011; not to 
exceed $48,580,000 is for financial policies and programs 
activities; not to exceed $64,611,000 is for terrorism and 
financial intelligence activities; not to exceed $22,679,000 is 
for Treasury-wide management policies and programs activities; 
and not to exceed $99,786,000 is for administration programs 
activities: Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any program 
activity of the Departmental Offices to any other program 
activity of the Departmental Offices upon notification to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That no appropriation for any program activity shall 
be increased or decreased by more than 4 percent by all such 
transfers: Provided further, That any change in funding greater 
than 4 percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of 
the amount appropriated under this heading, not to exceed 
$3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, is 
for information technology modernization requirements; not to 
exceed $200,000 is for official reception and representation 
expenses; and not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury 
and to be accounted for solely on his certificate: Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$6,787,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, is 
for the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and Internal 
Control Program, of which such amounts as may be necessary may 
be transferred to accounts of the Department's offices and 
bureaus to conduct audits: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other provided in this 
Act: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under 
this heading, $500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011, is for secure space requirements: Provided further, That 
of the amount appropriated under this heading, $3,400,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2012, is to develop and 
implement programs within the Office of Critical Infrastructure 
Protection and Compliance Policy, including entering into 
cooperative agreements: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012, is for modernizing the 
Office of Debt Management's information technology.

        DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data 
processing equipment, software, and services for the Department 
of the Treasury, $9,544,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2012: Provided, That $4,544,000 is for repairs to 
the Treasury Annex Building: Provided further, That these funds 
shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, 
and other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to support or 
supplement ``Internal Revenue Service, Operations Support'' or 
``Internal Revenue Service, Business Systems Modernization''.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$100,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, 
to be allocated and expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General of the Treasury, $29,700,000, of which not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

           TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX ADMINISTRATION

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General 
for Tax Administration in carrying out the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for 
replacement only for police-type use) and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); services authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Inspector General for Tax Administration; $152,000,000, of 
which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be available for official 
travel expenses; of which not to exceed $500,000 shall be 
available for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, 
to be allocated and expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General for Tax Administration; and of which not to 
exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

    SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special 
Inspector General in carrying out the provisions of the 
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
343), $23,300,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
training expenses, including for course development, of non-
Federal and foreign government personnel to attend meetings and 
training concerned with domestic and foreign financial 
intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law 
enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$111,010,000, of which not to exceed $26,085,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2012; and of which $9,316,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure 
personal services contracts.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$90,000,000 are rescinded.

                      Financial Management Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$244,132,000, of which not to exceed $9,220,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2012, for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 
shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $103,000,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$50,000 for cooperative research and development programs for 
laboratory services; and provision of laboratory assistance to 
State and local agencies with or without reimbursement: 
Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, shall 
be for the hiring, training, and equipping of special agents 
and related support personnel.

                           United States Mint

               UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, 
the United States Mint is provided funding through the United 
States Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with 
the production of circulating coins, numismatic coins, and 
protective services, including both operating expenses and 
capital investments. The aggregate amount of new liabilities 
and obligations incurred during fiscal year 2010 under such 
section 5136 for circulating coinage and protective service 
capital investments of the United States Mint shall not exceed 
$26,700,000.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     ADMINISTERING THE PUBLIC DEBT

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt 
issues of the United States, $192,244,000, of which not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses, and of which not to exceed $2,000,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2012, for systems 
modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein from 
the general fund for fiscal year 2010 shall be reduced by not 
more than $10,000,000 as definitive security issue fees and 
Legacy Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance fees are 
collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2010 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $182,244,000. 
In addition, $90,000 to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and 
personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as 
authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    To carry out the Community Development Banking and 
Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to 
the rate for ES-3, notwithstanding sections 4707(d) and 4707(e) 
of title 12, United States Code, $166,750,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011; of which $12,000,000 shall 
be for financial assistance, technical assistance, training and 
outreach programs, designed to benefit Native American, Native 
Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native communities and provided primarily 
through qualified community development lender organizations 
with experience and expertise in community development banking 
and lending in Indian country, Native American organizations, 
tribes and tribal organizations and other suitable providers; 
of which $1,000,000 shall be available for the pilot project 
grant program under section 1132(d) of division A of the 
Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-289); 
of which $3,150,000 shall be for an additional pilot project 
grant to an eligible organization located in the State of 
Hawaii for financial education and pre-home ownership 
counseling as authorized in section 1132(d) of division A of 
the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
289), and of which up to $18,000,000 may be used for 
administrative expenses, including administration of the New 
Markets Tax Credit.
    For an additional amount to be transferred to the ``Capital 
Magnet Fund'', as authorized by section 1339 of the Federal 
Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 
(12 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.), as amended by section 1131 of the 
Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-289), 
to support financing for affordable housing and economic 
development projects, $80,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That, for fiscal year 2010, 
section 1339(h)(3) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial 
Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended by section 1131 of 
the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
289), shall be applied by substituting the term ``at least 10 
times the grant amount or such other amount that the Secretary 
may require'' for ``at least 10 times the grant amount''.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           TAXPAYER SERVICES

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
provide taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and 
education, filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy 
services, and other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at 
such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
$2,278,830,000, of which not less than $6,100,000 shall be for 
the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of which not less 
than $10,000,000 shall be available for low-income taxpayer 
clinic grants, of which not less than $12,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, shall be available for a 
Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance matching grants 
demonstration program for tax return preparation assistance, 
and of which not less than $205,954,000 shall be available for 
operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate Service.

                              ENFORCEMENT

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of 
the Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed 
taxes, to provide legal and litigation support, to conduct 
criminal investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related 
to violations of internal revenue laws and other financial 
crimes, to purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850) 
and hire passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to 
provide other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, $4,904,000,000, 
of which not less than $59,206,000 shall be for the Interagency 
Crime and Drug Enforcement program; and of which not to exceed 
$126,500 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses associated with hosting the Leeds Castle Meeting in 
the United States during 2010: Provided, That up to $10,000,000 
may be transferred as necessary from this account to 
``Operations Support'' solely for the purposes of the 
Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement program: Provided 
further, That this transfer authority shall be in addition to 
any other transfer authority provided in this Act. In addition 
to amounts made available above, $600,000,000 shall be made 
available for enhanced tax enforcement activities.

                           OPERATIONS SUPPORT

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
support taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including 
rent payments; facilities services; printing; postage; physical 
security; headquarters and other IRS-wide administration 
activities; research and statistics of income; 
telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may 
be determined by the Commissioner; $4,083,884,000, of which up 
to $75,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2011, 
for information technology support; of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2012, for 
research; of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be for the 
Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; of which not to 
exceed $25,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation; and of which $290,000,000 shall be made 
available to support enhanced tax enforcement activities: 
Provided, That of the amounts provided under this heading, such 
sums as are necessary shall be available to fully support tax 
enforcement and enhanced tax enforcement activities.

                     BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's 
business systems modernization program, $263,897,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012, for the capital asset 
acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, 
including related Internal Revenue Service labor costs, and 
contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That, with the exception of labor costs, 
none of these funds may be obligated until the Internal Revenue 
Service submits to the Committees on Appropriations, and such 
Committees approve, a plan for expenditure that: (1) meets the 
capital planning and investment control review requirements 
established by the Office of Management and Budget, including 
Circular A-11; (2) complies with the Internal Revenue Service's 
enterprise architecture, including the modernization blueprint; 
(3) conforms with the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise 
life cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the Internal Revenue 
Service, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of 
Management and Budget; (5) has been reviewed by the Government 
Accountability Office; and (6) complies with the acquisition 
rules, requirements, guidelines, and systems acquisition 
management practices of the Federal Government.

               HEALTH INSURANCE TAX CREDIT ADMINISTRATION

    For expenses necessary to implement the health insurance 
tax credit included in the Trade Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
210), $15,512,000.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service or 
not to exceed 3 percent of appropriations under the heading 
``Enforcement'' may be transferred to any other Internal 
Revenue Service appropriation upon the advance approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a 
training program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service 
employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing 
courteously with taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and 
enforce policies and procedures that will safeguard the 
confidentiality of taxpayer information.
    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to 
the Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved 
facilities and increased staffing to provide sufficient and 
effective 1-800 help line service for taxpayers. The 
Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement of the 
Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and 
allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff 
to improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line 
service.
    Sec. 105.  Of the funds made available by this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service, not less than $7,100,000,000 shall be 
available only for tax enforcement. In addition, of the funds 
made available by this Act to the Internal Revenue Service, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $890,000,000 shall be 
available for enhanced tax law enforcement.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to enter into, renew, extend, administer, implement, 
enforce, or provide oversight of any qualified tax collection 
contract (as defined in section 6306 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986).

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 107.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury 
in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including 
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase of insurance for 
official motor vehicles operated in foreign countries; purchase 
of motor vehicles without regard to the general purchase price 
limitations for vehicles purchased and used overseas for the 
current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical 
services to employees and their dependents serving in foreign 
countries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 108.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in 
this Act made available to the Departmental Offices--Salaries 
and Expenses, Office of Inspector General, Financial Management 
Service, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may 
be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That no 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by 
more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 109.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation 
made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may 
be transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration's appropriation upon the advance approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That no transfer may 
increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 110.  Of the funds available for the purchase of law 
enforcement vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the 
Secretary of the Treasury certifies that the purchase by the 
respective Treasury bureau is consistent with departmental 
vehicle management principles: Provided, That the Secretary may 
delegate this authority to the Assistant Secretary for 
Management.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or 
otherwise available to the Department of the Treasury or the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 
Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 112.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds 
from Financial Management Service, Salaries and Expenses to the 
Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt 
collection: Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to 
such salaries and expenses account from debt collections 
received in the Debt Collection Fund.
    Sec. 113.  Section 122(g)(1) of Public Law 105-119 (5 
U.S.C. 3104 note), is further amended by striking ``11 years'' 
and inserting ``12 years''.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United 
States Mint to construct or operate any museum without the 
explicit approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the House Committee on 
Financial Services, and the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department 
of the Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the 
United States Mint, individually or collectively, may be used 
to consolidate any or all functions of the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing and the United States Mint without the explicit 
approval of the House Committee on Financial Services; the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; the 
House Committee on Appropriations; and the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 116.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for the 
Department of the Treasury's intelligence or intelligence 
related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by 
the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2010 
until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010.
    Sec. 117.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available 
from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial 
Revolving Fund for necessary official reception and 
representation expenses.
     This title may be cited as the ``Department of the 
Treasury Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                     Compensation of the President

    For compensation of the President, including an expense 
allowance at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 102, $450,000: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be expended for any other 
purpose and any unused amount shall revert to the Treasury 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1552.

                            The White House

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by 
law, including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence 
expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended 
and accounted for as provided in that section; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, periodicals, teletype 
news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 to be expended 
and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be 
available for allocation within the Executive Office of the 
President; and for necessary expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 
and 3 U.S.C. 107, $59,143,000, of which not less than 
$1,400,000 shall be for the Office of National AIDS Policy.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, 
refurnishing, improvement, heating, and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the 
White House and official entertainment expenses of the 
President, $13,838,000, to be expended and accounted for as 
provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at 
the White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That 
all reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this 
paragraph: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, such amount for reimbursable operating 
expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the Executive 
Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require each person sponsoring a 
reimbursable political event to pay in advance an amount equal 
to the estimated cost of the event, and all such advance 
payments shall be credited to this account and remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the Executive Residence 
shall require the national committee of the political party of 
the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be separately 
accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee 
during such fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall ensure that a written notice of any amount owed 
for a reimbursable operating expense under this paragraph is 
submitted to the person owing such amount within 60 days after 
such expense is incurred, and that such amount is collected 
within 30 days after the submission of such notice: Provided 
further, That the Executive Residence shall charge interest and 
assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that is 
not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the 
interest and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding 
debt on a United States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: 
Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in 
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That 
the Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after 
the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report 
setting forth the reimbursable operating expenses of the 
Executive Residence during the preceding fiscal year, including 
the total amount of such expenses, the amount of such total 
that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial events, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has 
been reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the 
tracking of expenses related to reimbursable events within the 
Executive Residence that includes a standard for the 
classification of any such expense as political or 
nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence 
from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of 
chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the 
Executive Residence at the White House, $2,500,000, to remain 
available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution 
of safety and health issues, and continued preventative 
maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers 
in carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 
(15 U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,200,000.

                       National Security Council

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,231,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 
107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $115,280,000, of 
which $16,768,000 shall remain available until expended for 
continued modernization of the information technology 
infrastructure within the Executive Office of the President.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and 
Budget, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, $92,863,000, of 
which not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for official 
representation expenses: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management and 
Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations 
under the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available for the Office of Management and 
Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of the 
transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, 
before the Committees on Appropriations or their subcommittees: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this or 
prior Acts shall be used, directly or indirectly, by the Office 
of Management and Budget, for evaluating or determining if 
water resource project or study reports submitted by the Chief 
of Engineers acting through the Secretary of the Army are in 
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and 
requirements relevant to the Civil Works water resource 
planning process: Provided further, That the Office of 
Management and Budget shall have not more than 60 days in which 
to perform budgetary policy reviews of water resource matters 
on which the Chief of Engineers has reported: Provided further, 
That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
notify the appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees 
when the 60-day review is initiated: Provided further, That if 
water resource reports have not been transmitted to the 
appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees within 15 
days after the end of the Office of Management and Budget 
review period based on the notification from the Director, 
Congress shall assume Office of Management and Budget 
concurrence with the report and act accordingly.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office 
of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 
(Public Law 109-469); not to exceed $10,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and for participation in 
joint projects or in the provision of services on matters of 
mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$29,575,000; of which $1,300,000 shall remain available until 
expended for policy research and evaluation: Provided, That the 
Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize 
gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or 
facilitating the work of the Office.

                COUNTERDRUG TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT CENTER

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology 
Assessment Center (CTAC) for research activities pursuant to 
the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act 
of 2006 (Public Law 109-469), $5,000,000, which shall remain 
available until expended for counternarcotics research and 
development projects: Provided, That such amount shall be 
available for transfer to other Federal departments or 
agencies: Provided further, That the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy shall submit for approval by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
a mission statement for CTAC, a detailed explanation of the 
CTAC program, and a detailed spending plan for the use of these 
funds, prior to obligation of any funds provided in this 
paragraph: Provided further, That the report required by the 
preceding proviso shall be in lieu of inclusion of CTAC in the 
financial plan required by section 202.

                     FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS

             HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS PROGRAM

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, 
$239,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, for 
drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy 
for each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which not less than 51 percent shall be 
transferred to State and local entities for drug control 
activities and shall be obligated not later than 120 days after 
enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 percent may be 
transferred to Federal agencies and departments in amounts 
determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy (``the Director''), of which up to $2,700,000 
may be used for auditing services and associated activities 
(including up to $500,000 to ensure the continued operation and 
maintenance of the Performance Management System): Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 
106-58, any unexpended funds obligated prior to fiscal year 
2008 may be used for any other approved activities of that High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, subject to reprogramming 
requirements: Provided further, That each High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area designated as of September 30, 2009, shall be 
funded at not less than the fiscal year 2009 base level, unless 
the Director submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate justification for 
changes to those levels based on clearly articulated priorities 
and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness: Provided further, That 
the Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
the initial allocation of fiscal year 2010 funding among HIDTAs 
not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, and shall 
notify the Committees of planned uses of discretionary HIDTA 
funding, as determined in consultation with the HIDTA 
Directors, not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act.

                  OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the Office 
of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 
(Public Law 109-469), $154,400,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available as follows: $45,000,000 to 
support a national media campaign; $95,000,000 for the Drug-
Free Communities Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be made 
available as directed by section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as 
amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); $1,000,000 
for the National Drug Court Institute; $10,000,000 for the 
United States Anti-Doping Agency for anti-doping activities; 
$1,900,000 for the United States membership dues to the World 
Anti-Doping Agency; $1,250,000 for the National Alliance for 
Model State Drug Laws; and $250,000 for evaluations and 
research related to National Drug Control Program performance 
measures, which may be transferred to other Federal departments 
and agencies to carry out such activities.

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, 
security, or defense which may arise at home or abroad during 
the current fiscal year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011.

           Partnership Fund for Program Integrity Innovation

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Partnership Fund for Program Integrity Innovation, 
$37,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012, 
which may be used for grants, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and administrative costs of carrying out 
Partnership Fund for Program Integrity Innovation pilot 
projects: Provided, That these funds shall be transferred by 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to 
appropriate agencies to carry out pilot projects and to conduct 
or provide for evaluation of such projects: Provided further, 
That such transfers shall be contingent upon the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget determining, in 
consultation with an interagency council consisting of 
representatives of appropriate Federal agencies, States, and 
other stakeholders, that the pilot projects address Federal 
programs that have a substantial State role in eligibility 
determination or administration or where Federal-State 
cooperation could otherwise be beneficial; in aggregate, save 
at least as much money as they cost; demonstrate the potential 
to streamline administration or strengthen program integrity; 
and do not achieve savings primarily by reducing the 
participation of eligible beneficiaries: Provided further, That 
the interagency council required by the previous proviso shall 
submit a progress report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate not later than 
March 31, 2010 and semiannually thereafter until the program is 
completed, including detailed information on goals, objectives, 
performance measures, and evaluations of the program in general 
and of each specific pilot undertaken.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to 
provide assistance to the President in connection with 
specially assigned functions; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which shall be expended and 
accounted for as provided in that section; and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $4,604,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to 
the extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, 
including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment 
expenses of the Vice President, to be accounted for solely on 
his certificate, $330,000: Provided, That advances or 
repayments or transfers from this appropriation may be made to 
any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the 
headings ``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the 
White House'', ``White House Repair and Restoration'', 
``Council of Economic Advisers'', ``National Security 
Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance 
to the President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice 
President'', the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget (or such other officer as the President may designate in 
writing), may, 15 days after giving notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such appropriation to 
any other such appropriation, to be merged with and available 
for the same time and for the same purposes as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided, That the amount 
of an appropriation shall not be increased by more than 50 
percent by such transfers: Provided further, That no amount 
shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance to the 
President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice President'' 
without the approval of the Vice President.
    Sec. 202.  The Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later than 
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and prior to 
the initial obligation of more than 20 percent of the funds 
appropriated in any account (except ``Counterdrug Technology 
Assessment Center'') under the heading ``Office of National 
Drug Control Policy'', a detailed narrative and financial plan 
on the proposed uses of all funds under the account by program, 
project, and activity: Provided, That the reports required by 
this section shall be updated and submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations every 6 months and shall include information 
detailing how the estimates and assumptions contained in 
previous reports have changed: Provided further, That any new 
projects and changes in funding of ongoing projects shall be 
subject to the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 203.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in 
this Act made available to the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy may be transferred between appropriated programs upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 3 percent.
    Sec. 204.  Not to exceed $1,000,000 of any appropriations 
in this Act made available to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy may be reprogrammed within a program, project, 
or activity upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
     This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the 
President Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme 
Court, as required by law, excluding care of the building and 
grounds, including purchase or hire, driving, maintenance, and 
operation of an automobile for the Chief Justice, not to exceed 
$10,000 for the purpose of transporting Associate Justices, and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be 
expended as the Chief Justice may approve, $74,034,000, of 
which $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                    CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the 
Architect of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon 
the Architect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $14,525,000, which 
shall remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers 
and employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as 
authorized by law, $32,560,000.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For salaries of the chief judge and eight judges, salaries 
of the officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$21,350,000.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including 
judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
justices and judges retired from office or from regular active 
service, judges of the United States Court of Federal Claims, 
bankruptcy judges, magistrate judges, and all other officers 
and employees of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise 
specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $5,011,018,000 (including the 
purchase of firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed 
$27,817,000 shall remain available until expended for space 
alteration projects and for furniture and furnishings related 
to new space alteration and construction projects.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of 
Federal Claims associated with processing cases under the 
National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-
660), not to exceed $5,428,000, to be appropriated from the 
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                           DEFENDER SERVICES

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A, and also 
under 18 U.S.C. 3599, in cases in which a defendant is charged 
with a crime that may be punishable by death; the compensation 
and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services under 18 U.S.C. 
3006A(e), and also under 18 U.S.C. 3599(f) and (g)(2), in cases 
in which a defendant is charged with a crime that may be 
punishable by death; the compensation (in accordance with the 
maximums under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses 
of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel; the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians 
ad litem acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or 
incompetent offenders in connection with transfers from the 
United States to foreign countries with which the United States 
has a treaty for the execution of penal sentences; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to represent jurors in civil actions for the 
protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection 
with certain judicial civil forfeiture proceedings; and for 
necessary training and general administrative expenses, 
$977,748,000, to remain available until expended.

                    FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1871 and 1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized 
by 28 U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed 
in condemnation cases pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal 
Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), 
$61,861,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the compensation of land commissioners shall not exceed the 
daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 
5332.

                             COURT SECURITY

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
incident to the provision of protective guard services for 
United States courthouses and other facilities housing Federal 
court operations, and the procurement, installation, and 
maintenance of security systems and equipment for United States 
courthouses and other facilities housing Federal court 
operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, 
perimeter security, basic security services provided by the 
Federal Protective Service, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and 
Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $452,607,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the United 
States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for 
administering the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent 
with standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the 
Administrative Office of the United States Courts and the 
Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle 
as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, $83,075,000, of which not 
to exceed $8,500 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $27,328,000; of which 
$1,800,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2011, 
to provide education and training to Federal court personnel; 
and of which not to exceed $1,500 is authorized for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                       Judicial Retirement Funds

                    PAYMENT TO JUDICIARY TRUST FUNDS

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $71,874,000; to the Judicial 
Survivors' Annuities Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), 
$6,500,000; and to the United States Court of Federal Claims 
Judges' Retirement Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), 
$4,000,000.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, 
$16,837,000, of which not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this 
title which are available for salaries and expenses shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no 
such appropriation, except ``Courts of Appeals, District 
Courts, and Other Judicial Services, Defender Services'' and 
``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: 
Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth 
in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
salaries and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, 
District Courts, and Other Judicial Services'' shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses of 
the Judicial Conference of the United States: Provided, That 
such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall be 
administered by the Director of the Administrative Office of 
the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304.  Within 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations a comprehensive 
financial plan for the Judiciary allocating all sources of 
available funds including appropriations, fee collections, and 
carryover balances, to include a separate and detailed plan for 
the Judiciary Information Technology Fund, which will establish 
the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
authorities for the current fiscal year.
    Sec. 305.  Section 3314(a) of title 40, United States Code, 
shall be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for ``executive'' 
each place it appears.
    Sec. 306.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
Marshals Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its 
Director may designate in consultation with the Director of the 
Administrative Office of the United States Courts, for purposes 
of a pilot program, the security services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 
authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to provide, 
except for the services specified in 40 U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E). 
For building-specific security services at these courthouses, 
the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States 
Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service 
rather than the Department of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 307.  Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act 
of 1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended--
            (1) in the third sentence (relating to the District 
        of Kansas), by striking ``18 years'' and inserting ``19 
        years'';
            (2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the Northern 
        District of Ohio), by striking ``18 years'' and 
        inserting ``19 years''; and
            (3) in the seventh sentence (relating to the 
        District of Hawaii), by striking ``15 years'' and 
        inserting ``16 years''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations 
Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION SUPPORT

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be 
deposited into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to 
be administered by the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident 
tuition support, $35,100,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such funds, including any interest 
accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of eligible District of 
Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the difference 
between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each 
year at eligible private institutions of higher education: 
Provided further, That the awarding of such funds may be 
prioritized on the basis of a resident's academic merit, the 
income and need of eligible students and such other factors as 
may be authorized: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia government shall maintain a dedicated account for the 
Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the 
Federal funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any 
subsequent appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior 
fiscal years, and any interest earned in this or any fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the account shall be under the 
control of the District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer, 
who shall use those funds solely for the purposes of carrying 
out the Resident Tuition Support Program: Provided further, 
That the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a 
quarterly financial report to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate for these funds 
showing, by object class, the expenditures made and the purpose 
therefor.

   FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

    For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined 
by the Mayor of the District of Columbia in written 
consultation with the elected county or city officials of 
surrounding jurisdictions, $15,000,000, to remain available 
until expended and in addition any funds that remain available 
from prior year appropriations under this heading for the 
District of Columbia Government, for the costs of providing 
public safety at events related to the presence of the national 
capital in the District of Columbia, including support 
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service 
Division in carrying out protective duties under the direction 
of the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for the costs of 
providing support to respond to immediate and specific 
terrorist threats or attacks in the District of Columbia or 
surrounding jurisdictions.

           FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia 
Courts, $261,180,000 to be allocated as follows: for the 
District of Columbia Court of Appeals, $12,022,000, of which 
not to exceed $2,500 is for official reception and 
representation expenses; for the District of Columbia Superior 
Court, $108,524,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the 
District of Columbia Court System, $65,114,000, of which not to 
exceed $2,500 is for official reception and representation 
expenses; and $75,520,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2011, for capital improvements for District of Columbia 
courthouse facilities, including structural improvements to the 
District of Columbia cell block at the Moultrie Courthouse: 
Provided, That funds made available for capital improvements 
shall be expended consistent with the General Services 
Administration (GSA) master plan study and building evaluation 
report: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget 
and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal 
agencies, with payroll and financial services to be provided on 
a contractual basis with the GSA, and such services shall 
include the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of 
which shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate: Provided further, That 30 days after providing written 
notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the District of Columbia Courts 
may reallocate not more than $1,000,000 of the funds provided 
under this heading among the items and entities funded under 
this heading for operations, and not more than 4 percent of the 
funds provided under this heading for facilities.

  FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 
11-2605, D.C. Official Code (relating to representation 
provided under the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), 
payments for counsel appointed in proceedings in the Family 
Court of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia under 
chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or pursuant to 
contractual agreements to provide guardian ad litem 
representation, training, technical assistance, and such other 
services as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad 
litem representation, payments for counsel appointed in 
adoption proceedings under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, and payments for counsel authorized under section 21-
2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided 
under the District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective 
Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$55,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
funds provided under this heading shall be administered by the 
Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of 
Columbia: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, this appropriation shall be apportioned 
quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated 
and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
expenses of other Federal agencies, with payroll and financial 
services to be provided on a contractual basis with the General 
Services Administration (GSA), and such services shall include 
the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which 
shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY 
                      FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
of motor vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender 
Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, as authorized 
by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $212,408,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,000 is for official reception and representation expenses 
related to Community Supervision and Pretrial Services Agency 
programs; of which not to exceed $25,000 is for dues and 
assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision 
Act of 2002; of which $153,856,000 shall be for necessary 
expenses of Community Supervision and Sex Offender 
Registration, to include expenses relating to the supervision 
of adults subject to protection orders or the provision of 
services for or related to such persons; of which $58,552,000 
shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts 
under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office 
of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same 
manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other 
Federal agencies: Provided further, That not less than 
$2,000,000 shall be available for re-entrant housing in the 
District of Columbia: Provided further, That the Director is 
authorized to accept and use gifts in the form of in-kind 
contributions of space and hospitality to support offender and 
defendant programs, and equipment and vocational training 
services to educate and train offenders and defendants: 
Provided further, That the Director shall keep accurate and 
detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under the previous proviso, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection: Provided 
further, That the Court Services and Offender Supervision 
Agency Director is authorized to accept and use reimbursement 
from the District of Columbia Government for space and services 
provided on a cost reimbursable basis.

  FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE FOR THE DISTRICT OF 
                                COLUMBIA

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
of motor vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender 
Service, as authorized by the National Capital Revitalization 
and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, $37,316,000: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by 
the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended 
in the same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and 
expenses of Federal agencies.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Water and 
Sewer Authority, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to continue implementation of the Combined Sewer 
Overflow Long-Term Plan: Provided, That the District of 
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100 percent match 
for this payment.

      FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating 
Council, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
support initiatives related to the coordination of Federal and 
local criminal justice resources in the District of Columbia.

                FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 
30, 2011, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and 
Tenure, $295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, 
$205,000.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FOR THE 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

    For a Federal payment to the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer for the District of Columbia, $1,850,000, in the 
amounts and for the projects specified in the table that 
appears under the heading ``Federal Payment to the Office of 
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia'' in 
the statement of managers to accompany this Act: Provided, That 
each entity that receives funding under this heading shall 
submit to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer for the 
District of Columbia (CFO), not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act, a detailed budget and comprehensive 
description of the activities to be carried out with such 
funds, and the CFO shall submit a comprehensive report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate not later than June 1, 2010.

                 FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in 
the District of Columbia, $75,400,000, to be allocated as 
follows: for the District of Columbia Public Schools, 
$42,200,000 to improve public school education in the District 
of Columbia; for the State Education Office, $20,000,000 to 
expand quality public charter schools in the District of 
Columbia, to remain available until expended; for the Secretary 
of the Department of Education, $13,200,000 to provide 
opportunity scholarships for students in the District of 
Columbia in accordance with title III of division C of the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 108-
199; 118 Stat. 126), to remain available until expended, of 
which up to $1,000,000 may be used to administer and fund 
assessments, and of which up to $1,000,000 may be used to 
administer testing of students to determine and compare 
academic performance of the schools enrolling students 
participating in the opportunity scholarship program: Provided, 
That notwithstanding the second proviso under this heading in 
Public Law 111-8, funds provided herein may only be used to 
provide opportunity scholarships to students who received 
scholarships in the 2009-2010 school year: Provided further, 
That funds available under this heading for opportunity 
scholarships, including from prior-year appropriations Acts, 
may be made available only for scholarships to students who 
received scholarships in the 2009-2010 school year: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this Act or any 
other Act for opportunity scholarships may be used by an 
eligible student to enroll in a participating school under the 
DC School Choice Incentive Act of 2003 unless (1) the 
participating school has and maintains a valid certificate of 
occupancy issued by the District of Columbia; (2) the core 
subject matter teachers of the eligible student hold 4-year 
bachelor's degrees; and (3) the participating school is in 
compliance with the accreditation and other standards 
prescribed under the District of Columbia compulsory school 
attendance laws that apply to educational institutions not 
affiliated with the District of Columbia Public Schools: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Education shall submit 
a report to Congress not later than June 15, 2010 detailing the 
academic rigor and quality of each participating school and 
that for the purposes of submitting the report the Secretary 
shall administer to eligible students participating in the 
program the same tests of academic performance as those 
administered to students enrolled in the District of Columbia 
Public Schools in the 2009-2010 school year and the Secretary 
shall utilize the performance of scholarship recipients on that 
test as well as other metrics of academic quality considered 
appropriate by the Secretary to evaluate the academic rigor and 
quality of participating schools and include in this report 
comparative data on District of Columbia Public Schools and 
Public Charter Schools: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Education shall ensure that site inspections of participating 
schools are conducted at least twice annually.

          FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR CONSOLIDATED LABORATORY FACILITY

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, for 
costs associated with the construction of a consolidated 
bioterrorism and forensics laboratory: Provided, That the 
District of Columbia provides a 100 percent match for this 
payment.

      FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National 
Guard, $375,000, to remain available until expended for the 
District of Columbia National Guard retention and college 
access programs, which shall hereafter be known as the ``Major 
General David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National 
Guard Retention and College Access Program''.

              FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR HOUSING FOR THE HOMELESS

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, 
$17,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, to 
support permanent supportive housing programs in the District.

                   FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR YOUTH SERVICES

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, 
$4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, to 
support the ``Reconnecting Disconnected Youth'' initiative.

                       District of Columbia Funds

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of 
Columbia for the current fiscal year out of the General Fund of 
the District of Columbia (``General Fund''), except as 
otherwise specifically provided: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, except as provided in section 450A 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, (114 Stat. 2440; 
D.C. Official Code, section 1-204.50a) and provisions of the 
Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Request Act, the total amount 
appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for the 
District of Columbia for fiscal year 2010 under this heading 
shall not exceed the lesser of the sum of the total revenues of 
the District of Columbia for such fiscal year or 
$10,016,041,000 (of which $5,637,824,000 shall be from local 
funds, (including $394,417,000 from dedicated taxes) 
$2,661,782,000 shall be from Federal grant funds, 
$1,711,249,000 shall be from other funds, and $5,187,000 shall 
be from private funds); in addition, $185,725,000 from funds 
previously appropriated in this Act as Federal payments, which 
does not include funds appropriated under the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5): Provided 
further, That of the local funds, such amounts as may be 
necessary may be derived from the District's General Fund 
balance: Provided further, That of these funds the District's 
intradistrict authority shall be $791,096,000: in addition for 
capital construction projects, an increase of $3,249,642,000, 
of which $2,685,760,000 shall be from local funds, $54,893,000 
from the District of Columbia Highway Trust fund, $186,805,000 
from the Local Street Maintenance fund, $322,184,000 from 
Federal grant funds, and a rescission of $1,834,494,000 from 
local funds and a rescission of $91,327,000 from Local Street 
Maintenance funds appropriated under this heading in prior 
fiscal years for a net amount of $1,323,821,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the amounts 
provided under this heading are to be available, allocated and 
expended as proposed under Title III of the Fiscal Year 2010 
Budget Request Act at the rate set forth under ``District of 
Columbia Funds Division of Expenses'' of the Fiscal Year 2010 
Proposed Budget and Financial Plan submitted to the Congress of 
the United States by the District of Columbia on September 28, 
2009: Provided further, That this amount may be increased by 
proceeds of one-time transactions, which are expended for 
emergency or unanticipated operating or capital needs: Provided 
further, That such increases shall be approved by enactment of 
local District law and shall comply with all reserve 
requirements contained in the District of Columbia Home Rule 
Act (87 Stat. 777; D.C. Official Code sec. 1-201.01 et seq.): 
Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia shall take such steps as are necessary to 
assure that the District of Columbia meets these requirements, 
including the apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of 
the appropriations and funds made available to the District 
during fiscal year 2010, except that the Chief Financial 
Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses any funds 
derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for 
capital projects.
     This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of 
the United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., 
$1,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, of 
which not to exceed $1,000 is for official reception and 
representation expenses.

               Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For payment to the Christopher Columbus Fellowship 
Foundation, established by section 423 of Public Law 102-281, 
$750,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety 
Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the 
maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal 
awards to recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to 
Commission activities, and not to exceed $2,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, $118,200,000, of which 
$2,000,000 shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2011, to implement the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool 
and Spa Safety Act grant program as provided by section 1405 of 
Public Law 110-140 (15 U.S.C. 8004).

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-252), $17,959,000, of which 
$3,500,000 shall be transferred to the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology for election reform activities 
authorized under the Help America Vote Act of 2002: Provided, 
That $750,000 shall be for the Help America Vote College 
Program as authorized by the Help America Vote Act of 2002: 
Provided further, That $300,000 shall be for a competitive 
grant program to support community involvement in student and 
parent mock elections.

                        ELECTION REFORM PROGRAMS

    For necessary expenses relating to election reform 
programs, $75,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $70,000,000 shall be for requirements payments under part 
1 of subtitle D of title II of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-252), $3,000,000 shall be for grants to 
carry out research on voting technology improvements as 
authorized under part 3 of subtitle D of title II of such Act, 
and $2,000,000, shall be to conduct a pilot program for grants 
to States and units of local government for pre-election logic 
and accuracy testing and post-election voting systems 
verification.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications 
Commission, as authorized by law, including uniforms and 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not 
to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; purchase and hire of motor vehicles; special counsel 
fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$335,794,000: Provided, That $335,794,000 of offsetting 
collections shall be assessed and collected pursuant to section 
9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, 
and shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2010 so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2010 appropriation 
estimated at $0: Provided further, That any offsetting 
collections received in excess of $335,794,000 in fiscal year 
2010 shall not be available for obligation: Provided further, 
That remaining offsetting collections from prior years 
collected in excess of the amount specified for collection in 
each such year and otherwise becoming available on October 1, 
2009, shall not be available for obligation: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the 
use of a competitive bidding system that may be retained and 
made available for obligation shall not exceed $85,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2010: Provided further, That the Inspector General 
of the Federal Communications Commission shall examine whether, 
and to what extent, the National Exchange Carrier Association, 
Inc. is acting in compliance with the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, 
and whether, and to what extent, the FCC has delegated 
authority to National Exchange Carrier Association, Inc. 
consistent with the Communications Act of 1934, as amended: 
Provided further, That the Federal Communications Commission 
Inspector General shall submit a report to Congress not later 
than July 1, 2010, setting forth the conclusions of such 
examination.

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

    Sec. 501.  Section 302 of the Universal Service 
Antideficiency Temporary Suspension Act is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2009'', each place it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2010''.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, 
amend, or change its rules or regulations for universal service 
support payments to implement the February 27, 2004 
recommendations of the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal 
Service regarding single connection or primary line 
restrictions on universal service support payments.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $37,942,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance 
Fund or, only when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, $66,500,000, of which 
not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and 
representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
Federal Labor Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization 
Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 
1978, including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 
including hire of experts and consultants, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, $24,773,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid 
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed 
intermittently in the Government service, and compensation as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management 
relations conferences shall be credited to and merged with this 
account, to be available without further appropriation for the 
costs of carrying out these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $291,700,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $300,000 shall be available for use to contract with a 
person or persons for collection services in accordance with 
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$102,000,000 of offsetting collections derived from fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 
18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be retained 
and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $21,000,000 in offsetting collections derived from 
fees sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing 
Sales Rule, promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer 
Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall 
be credited to this account, and be retained and used for 
necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
fiscal year 2010, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2010 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$168,700,000: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to 
implement subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    General Services Administration

                        REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES

                         FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND

                 LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE

    For an additional amount to be deposited in the Federal 
Buildings Fund, $537,900,000. Amounts in the Fund, including 
revenues and collections deposited into the Fund shall be 
available for necessary expenses of real property management 
and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of 
Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving governmental 
agencies (including space adjustments and telecommunications 
relocation expenses) in connection with the assignment, 
allocation and transfer of space; contractual services incident 
to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, 
approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; 
acquisition of buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, 
or as otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options to 
purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of 
federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of 
projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new 
buildings (including equipment for such buildings); and payment 
of principal, interest, and any other obligations for public 
buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $8,543,585,000, of which: 
(1) $894,037,000 shall remain available until expended for 
construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
expenses and associated design and construction services) of 
additional projects at the following locations:
    New Construction:
            Alabama:
                    Mobile, United States Courthouse, 
                $50,000,000.
            California:
                    Calexico, Calexico West, Land Port of 
                Entry, $9,437,000.
            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center 
                Remediation, $9,962,000.
            District of Columbia:
                    Columbia Plaza, $100,000,000.
                    Southeast Federal Center Remediation, 
                $15,000,000.
            Florida:
                    Miami, Federal Bureau of Investigation 
                Field Office Consolidation, $190,675,000.
            Georgia:
                    Savannah, United States Courthouse, 
                $7,900,000.
            Maine:
                    Madawaska, Land Port of Entry, $50,127,000.
            Maryland:
                    White Oak, Food and Drug Administration 
                Consolidation, $137,871,000.
                    Greenbelt, United States Courthouse, 
                $10,000,000.
            Pennsylvania:
                    Lancaster, United States Courthouse, 
                $6,500,000.
            Texas:
                    El Paso, Tornillo-Guadalupe, Land Port of 
                Entry, $91,565,000.
                    San Antonio, United States Courthouse, 
                $4,000,000.
            Utah:
                    Salt Lake City, United States Courthouse, 
                $211,000,000:

Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that 
savings are effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 
10 percent of the amounts included in an approved prospectus, 
if required, unless advance approval is obtained from the 
Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That all funds for direct construction projects shall 
expire on September 30, 2011 and remain in the Federal 
Buildings Fund except for funds for projects as to which funds 
for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in 
part prior to such date: Provided further, That for fiscal year 
2011 and thereafter, the annual budget submission to Congress 
for the General Services Administration shall include a 
detailed 5-year plan for Federal building construction projects 
with a yearly update of total projected future funding needs: 
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2011 and thereafter, the 
annual budget submission to Congress for the General Services 
Administration shall, in consultation with U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, include a detailed 5-year plan for Federal 
land port-of-entry projects with a yearly update of total 
projected future funding needs; (2) $413,776,000 shall remain 
available until expended for repairs and alterations, which 
includes associated design and construction services:
    Repairs and Alterations:
            District of Columbia:
                    East Wing Infrastructure Systems 
                Replacement, $84,500,000.
                    Eisenhower Executive Office Building Roof 
                Replacement, $15,000,000.
                    New Executive Office Building, $30,276,000.
            Special Emphasis Programs:
                    Fire and Life Safety Program, $20,000,000.
                    Energy and Water Retrofit and Conservation 
                Measures, $2,000,000.
                    Federal High-Performance Green Buildings, 
                $2,000,000.
            Basic Repairs and Alterations, $260,000,000:

Provided further, That funds made available in this or any 
previous Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and 
Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the 
amount identified for each project, except each project in this 
or any previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 
10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the 
Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the amounts provided in 
this or any prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be 
used to fund costs associated with implementing security 
improvements to buildings necessary to meet the minimum 
standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any 
projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs 
and Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and 
Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects: Provided further, That all funds for repairs and 
alterations prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 
2011 and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for 
projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided 
further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
the Government arising from any projects under the heading 
``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized 
increases in prospectus projects; (3) $140,525,000 for 
installment acquisition payments including payments on purchase 
contracts which shall remain available until expended; (4) 
$4,804,871,000 for rental of space which shall remain available 
until expended; and (5) $2,290,376,000 for building operations 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall not be available for expenses of any construction, 
repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a 
prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, 
has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses for the 
development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That 
funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended 
for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special services to 
other agencies under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to provide 
such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government 
ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the United 
States Secret Service to perform its protective functions 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such 
revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues and 
collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 2010, excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C. 
592(b)(2) in excess of the aggregate new obligational authority 
authorized for Real Property Activities of the Federal 
Buildings Fund in this Act shall remain in the Fund and shall 
not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

                           GENERAL ACTIVITIES

                         GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
for Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated 
with the management of real and personal property assets and 
certain administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, telecommunications, 
information technology management, and related technology 
activities; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
$59,665,000.

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
for Government-wide activities associated with utilization and 
donation of surplus personal property; disposal of real 
property; agency-wide policy direction, management, and 
communications; the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$7,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
$72,881,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be for a payment to the 
Oklahoma City National Memorial Foundation as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 450ss-5.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
and service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $59,000,000: Provided, 
That not to exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for 
information and detection of fraud against the Government, 
including payment for recovery of stolen Government property: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available 
for awards to employees of other Federal agencies and private 
citizens in recognition of efforts and initiatives resulting in 
enhanced Office of Inspector General effectiveness.

                       ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in support of interagency projects 
that enable the Federal Government to expand its ability to 
conduct activities electronically, through the development and 
implementation of innovative uses of the Internet and other 
electronic methods, $34,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That these funds may be transferred to 
Federal agencies to carry out the purpose of the Fund: Provided 
further, That this transfer authority shall be in addition to 
any other transfer authority provided in this Act: Provided 
further, That such transfers may not be made until 10 days 
after a proposed spending plan and explanation for each project 
to be undertaken has been submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

           ALLOWANCES AND OFFICE STAFF FOR FORMER PRESIDENTS

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 
1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $3,756,000.

                     FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Citizen Services, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $36,515,000, to 
be deposited into the Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided, 
That the appropriations, revenues, and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of 
Federal Citizen Services activities in the aggregate amount not 
to exceed $61,000,000. Appropriations, revenues, and 
collections accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2010 in 
excess of such amount shall remain in the Fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 510.  Funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall be available for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles.
    Sec. 511.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made 
available for fiscal year 2010 for Federal Buildings Fund 
activities may be transferred between such activities only to 
the extent necessary to meet program requirements: Provided, 
That any proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate.
    Sec. 512.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, 
funds made available by this Act shall be used to transmit a 
fiscal year 2011 request for United States Courthouse 
construction only if the request: (1) meets the design guide 
standards for construction as established and approved by the 
General Services Administration, the Judicial Conference of the 
United States, and the Office of Management and Budget; (2) 
reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved 5-year construction 
plan; and (3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization 
study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide 
cleaning services, security enhancements, or any other service 
usually provided through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any 
agency that does not pay the rate per square foot assessment 
for space and services as determined by the General Services 
Administration in compliance with the Public Buildings 
Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 514.  From funds made available under the heading 
``Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
Revenue'', claims against the Government of less than $250,000 
arising from direct construction projects and acquisition of 
buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in other 
construction projects with prior notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 515.  In any case in which the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting lease authority 
pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration under 40 
U.S.C. 3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the delineated 
area of procurement is identical to the delineated area 
included in the prospectus for all lease agreements, except 
that, if the Administrator determines that the delineated area 
of the procurement should not be identical to the delineated 
area included in the prospectus, the Administrator shall 
provide an explanatory statement to each of such committees and 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to exercising any lease 
authority provided in the resolution.
    Sec. 516.  In furtherance of the emergency management 
policy set forth in the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act, the Administrator of the General 
Services Administration may provide for the use of the Federal 
supply schedules of the General Services Administration by 
relief and disaster assistance organizations as described in 
section 309 of that Act. Purchases under this authority shall 
be limited to use in preparation for, response to, and recovery 
from hazards as defined in section 602 of that Act.

                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation 
Trust Fund, established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, 
$660,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit 
Systems Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
Numbered 2 of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and 
the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct procurement of survey 
printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $40,339,000 together with not to 
exceed $2,579,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate 
retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the 
Merit Systems Protection Board.

            Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

            MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL TRUST FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall 
Trust Fund, pursuant to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. 
Udall Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $2,500,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which up to $50,000 shall 
be used to conduct financial audits pursuant to the 
Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289) 
notwithstanding sections 8 and 9 of Public Law 102-259: 
Provided, That up to 60 percent of such funds may be 
transferred by the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall 
Foundation for the necessary expenses of the Native Nations 
Institute.

                 ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to 
carry out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and 
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $3,800,000, to remain 
available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses in connection with the 
administration of the National Archives and Records 
Administration (including the Information Security Oversight 
Office) and archived Federal records and related activities, as 
provided by law, and for expenses necessary for the review and 
declassification of documents and the activities of the Public 
Interest Declassification Board, and for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.), including 
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning, $339,770,000.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform 
Act of 2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,100,000.

                      ELECTRONIC RECORDS ARCHIVES

    For necessary expenses in connection with the development 
of the electronic records archives, to include all direct 
project costs associated with research, analysis, design, 
development, and program management, $85,500,000, of which 
$61,757,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2012: 
Provided, That none of the multi-year funds may be obligated 
until the National Archives and Records Administration submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations, and such Committees 
approve, a plan for expenditure that: (1) meets the capital 
planning and investment control review requirements established 
by the Office of Management and Budget, including Circular A-
11; (2) complies with the National Archives and Records 
Administration's enterprise architecture; (3) conforms with the 
National Archives and Records Administration's enterprise life 
cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the National Archives and 
Records Administration and the Office of Management and Budget; 
(5) has been reviewed by the Government Accountability Office; 
and (6) complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, 
guidelines, and systems acquisition management practices of the 
Federal Government.

                        REPAIRS AND RESTORATION

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives 
facilities, and to provide adequate storage for holdings, 
$27,500,000, to remain available until expended.

        NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND RECORDS COMMISSION

                             GRANTS PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for 
historical publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 
2504, $13,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY

    During fiscal year 2010, gross obligations of the Central 
Liquidity Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans 
to member credit unions, as authorized by 12 U.S.C. 1795 et 
seq., shall be the amount authorized by section 307(a)(4)(A) of 
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1795f(a)(4)(A)): 
Provided, That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity 
Facility in fiscal year 2010 shall not exceed $1,250,000.

               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program 
as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $1,250,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2011 for technical 
assistance to low-income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
of Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act 
of 1978, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $14,000,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
of Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical 
examinations performed for veterans by private physicians on a 
fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not 
to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of 
the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem 
and/or subsistence allowances to employees where Voting Rights 
Act activities require an employee to remain overnight at his 
or her post of duty, $102,970,000, of which $5,908,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2011 for the Enterprise 
Human Resources Integration project; $1,364,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2011 for the Human Resources Line 
of Business project; and in addition $112,738,000 for 
administrative expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate 
trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management without 
regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs, 
of which not more than $9,300,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2011 for the cost of implementing the new 
integrated financial system and not more than $4,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2011 for automating the 
retirement recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the provisions 
of this appropriation shall not affect the authority to use 
applicable trust funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 
and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code: Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the 
Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to 
Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit 
of like purpose: Provided further, That the President's 
Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 
2010, accept donations of money, property, and personal 
services: Provided further, That such donations, including 
those from prior years, may be used for the development of 
publicity materials to provide information about the White 
House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the 
salaries of employees of such Commission: Provided further, 
That within the funds provided, the Office of Personnel 
Management shall carry out the Intergovernmental Personnel Act 
Mobility Program, with special attention to Federal agencies 
employing more than 2,000 nurses: Provided further, That 
funding may be allocated to develop guidelines that provide 
Federal agencies direction in using their authority under the 
Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program, according to 
the directives outlined in the joint explanatory statement.

                      office of inspector general

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, $3,148,000, and in addition, not 
to exceed $21,215,000 for administrative expenses to audit, 
investigate, and provide other oversight of the Office of 
Personnel Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector General: 
Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

      GOVERNMENT PAYMENT FOR ANNUITANTS, EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to 
retired employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees Health 
Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), such sums as may be necessary.

       GOVERNMENT PAYMENT FOR ANNUITANTS, EMPLOYEE LIFE INSURANCE

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to 
employees retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by 
chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code, such sums as may be 
necessary.

        PAYMENT TO CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased 
annuity benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 
1969, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under 
special Acts to be credited to the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That 
annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 1944, and the Act of 
August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out 
of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
of Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
454), the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-
12), Public Law 107-304, and the Uniformed Services Employment 
and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; $18,495,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission 
in carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $14,333,000, to be 
derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended 
as authorized by section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties 
Oversight Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (5 
U.S.C. 601 note), $1,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
the rental of space (to include multiple year leases) in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, 
$1,111,000,000, to remain available until expended; of which 
not less than $4,400,000 shall be for the Office of Inspector 
General; of which not to exceed $20,000 may be used toward 
funding a permanent secretariat for the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions; and of which not to 
exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses for 
consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members of 
their delegations, appropriate representatives and staff to 
exchange views concerning developments relating to securities 
matters, development and implementation of cooperation 
agreements concerning securities matters and provision of 
technical assistance for the development of foreign securities 
markets, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff 
and foreign invitees in attendance at such consultations and 
meetings including: (1) such incidental expenses as meals taken 
in the course of such attendance; (2) any travel and 
transportation to or from such meetings; and (3) any other 
related lodging or subsistence: Provided, That fees and charges 
authorized by sections 6(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), and 13(e), 14(g) and 31 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g), and 
78ee), shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,094,915,800 of such offsetting collections shall be 
available until expended for necessary expenses of this 
account: Provided further, That $16,084,200 shall be derived 
from prior year unobligated balances from funds previously 
appropriated to the Securities and Exchange Commission: 
Provided further, That the total amount appropriated under this 
heading from the general fund for fiscal year 2010 shall be 
reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as to result in 
a final total fiscal year 2010 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at not more than $0.

                        Selective Service System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, 
including expenses of attendance at meetings and of training 
for uniformed personnel assigned to the Selective Service 
System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian 
employees; purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to 
exceed $750 for official reception and representation expenses; 
$24,275,000: Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the 
President may exempt this appropriation from the provisions of 
31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems such action to be 
necessary in the interest of national defense: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
expended for or in connection with the induction of any person 
into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
Small Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 108-
447, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized 
by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $433,438,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge fees 
to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
Business Administration, and certain loan program activities, 
including fees authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Business 
Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to 
this account, to remain available until expended, for carrying 
out these purposes without further appropriations: Provided 
further, That $113,000,000 shall be available to fund grants 
for performance in fiscal year 2010 or fiscal year 2011 as 
authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for the Veterans Assistance and Services 
Program authorized by section 21(n) of the Small Business Act, 
as added by section 107 of Public Law 110-186, and of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for the Small Business Energy Efficiency 
Program authorized by section 1203(c) of Public Law 110-140: 
Provided further, That $22,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2011 for marketing, management, and technical 
assistance under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make microloans under 
the microloan program: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 2010, the applicable percentage under section 7(m)(4)(A) 
of the Small Business Act shall be 50 percent: Provided 
further, That $11,690,500 shall be available for the Loan 
Modernization and Accounting System, to be available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be 
for the Federal and State Technology Partnership Program under 
section 34 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657d).

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $16,300,000.

                 SURETY BOND GUARANTEES REVOLVING FUND

    For additional capital for the Surety Bond Guarantees 
Revolving Fund, authorized by the Small Business Investment Act 
of 1958, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, and for the cost of guaranteed loans 
as authorized by section 7(a) of the Small Business Act, 
$80,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall 
be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974: Provided further, That subject to section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2010 
commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2010 
commitments for general business loans authorized under section 
7(a) of the Small Business Act shall not exceed 
$17,500,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 
2010 commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under 
section 303(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 
shall not exceed $3,000,000,000: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 2010, guarantees of trust certificates authorized 
by section 5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not exceed a 
principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs, $153,000,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying such loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, $1,690,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $352,357 is for loan 
guarantees as authorized by section 42 of the Small Business 
Act, and $1,337,643 is for loan guarantees as authorized by 
section 12085 of Public Law 110-246.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act and the guaranteed loan programs authorized by 
section 42 of the Small Business Act and section 12085 of 
Public Law 110-246, $76,588,200, to be available until 
expended, of which $1,000,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for 
the Office of Inspector General; of which $65,278,200 is for 
direct administrative expenses of loan making and servicing to 
carry out the direct loan program, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses; 
of which $9,000,000 is for indirect administrative expenses for 
the direct loan program, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses, and of which 
$1,310,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan programs, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 520.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Small 
Business Administration in this Act may be transferred between 
such appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: 
Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 608 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    Sec. 521.  All disaster loans issued in Alaska or North 
Dakota shall be administered by the Small Business 
Administration and shall not be sold during fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 522.  Funds made available under section 525 of Public 
Law 111-8 for the Jackie Joyner-Kersee Center shall be made 
available to the Illinois Institute of Independent Colleges and 
Universities.
    Sec. 523.  For an additional amount under the heading 
``Small Business Administration--Salaries and Expenses'', 
$59,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, 
which shall be for initiatives related to small business 
development and entrepreneurship, including programmatic and 
construction activities, in the amounts and for the projects 
specified in the table that appears under the heading 
``Administrative Provisions--Small Business Administration'' in 
the statement of managers to accompany this Act.

                      United States Postal Service

                   PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone 
on free and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and 
(d) of section 2401 of title 39, United States Code, 
$118,328,000, of which $89,328,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 2010: Provided, That mail for 
overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be 
free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery 
of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the 
Postal Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, 
regulation, or policy of charging any officer or employee of 
any State or local child support enforcement agency, or any 
individual participating in a State or local program of child 
support enforcement, a fee for information requested or 
provided concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post 
offices in fiscal year 2010.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $244,397,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal 
Service Fund and expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of 
the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-
435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and 
other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $49,241,000: 
Provided, That travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon 
the written certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in 
regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
nor may any be transferred to other appropriations, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise 
provided under existing law, or under existing Executive order 
issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
shall be available for any activity or for paying the salary of 
any Government employee where funding an activity or paying a 
salary to a Government employee would result in a decision, 
determination, rule, regulation, or policy that would prohibit 
the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 
U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may 
be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
expending the assistance the entity will comply with the Buy 
American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act shall be made available to any person 
or entity that has been convicted of violating the Buy American 
Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none 
of the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in this 
Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury 
derived by the collection of fees and available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates 
a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or 
activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by the 
Congress; (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific 
activity by the Committee on Appropriations of either the House 
of Representatives or the Senate for a different purpose; (5) 
augments existing programs, projects, or activities in excess 
of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; (6) reduces 
existing programs, projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes 
offices, programs, or activities unless prior approval is 
received from the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That prior to any 
significant reorganization or restructuring of offices, 
programs, or activities, each agency or entity funded in this 
Act shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
each agency funded by this Act shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate to establish the baseline for application of 
reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the report shall include: (1) a 
table for each appropriation with a separate column to display 
the President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, 
adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the 
fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for 
each appropriation both by object class and program, project, 
and activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the 
respective appropriation; and (3) an identification of items of 
special congressional interest: Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated or limited for salaries and expenses for an 
agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after 
the required date that the report has not been submitted to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
available at the end of fiscal year 2010 from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2010 
in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 2011, 
for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, 
That a request shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds: Provided 
further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 610.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used by the Executive Office of the President to request 
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation any official 
background investigation report on any individual, except 
when--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express 
        written consent for such request not more than 6 months 
        prior to the date of such request and during the same 
        presidential administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under 
section 26 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act 
(Public Law 93-400; 41 U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect 
to a contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
Program established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and 
implementing any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign 
area cost-of-living allowance program, the Office of Personnel 
Management may accept and utilize (without regard to any 
restriction on unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an 
Appropriations Act) funds made available to the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal 
employees health benefits program which provides any benefits 
or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply 
where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus 
were carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act 
of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to 
commercial information technology, the restriction on 
purchasing nondomestic articles, materials, and supplies set 
forth in the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.), shall 
not apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of 
information technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 
40, United States Code), that is a commercial item (as defined 
in section 4(12) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy 
Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12)).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United 
States Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or 
commission funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that 
agency, nor may such agency or commission accept, payment or 
reimbursement from a non-Federal entity for travel, 
subsistence, or related expenses for the purpose of enabling an 
officer or employee to attend and participate in any meeting or 
similar function relating to the official duties of the officer 
or employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement 
is a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, or represents a person or entity subject to 
regulation by such agency or commission, unless the person or 
entity is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 
501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
shall have authority to obligate funds for the scholarship 
program established by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-204) in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the amount of funds collected by the Board as of 
December 31, 2009, including accrued interest, as a result of 
the assessment of monetary penalties. Funds available for 
obligation in fiscal year 2010 shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 618.  From the unobligated balances of prior year 
appropriations made available for the Privacy and Civil 
Liberties Oversight Board, $1,500,000 are rescinded.
    Sec. 619.  During fiscal year 2010, for purposes of section 
908(b)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement 
Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7207(b)(1)), the term ``payment of cash 
in advance'' shall be interpreted as payment before the 
transfer of title to, and control of, the exported items to the 
Cuban purchaser.
    Sec. 620. (a) Section 101(a)(1) of the Federal and District 
of Columbia Government Real Property Act of 2006 (Public Law 
109-396; 120 Stat. 2711) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) U.S. reservation 13.--On the date on 
                which the District of Columbia conveys to the 
                Administrator of General Services all right, 
                title, and interest of the District of Columbia 
                in the property described in subsection (c), 
                the Administrator shall convey to the District 
                of Columbia all right, title, and interest of 
                the United States in U.S. Reservation 13, 
                subject to the conditions described in 
                subsection (b).
                    ``(B) Old naval hospital.--Not later than 
                60 days after the date of the enactment of the 
                Financial Services and General Government 
                Appropriations Act, 2010, the Administrator 
                shall convey to the District of Columbia all 
                right, title, and interest of the United States 
                in Old Naval Hospital.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect 
as if included in the enactment of the Federal and District of 
Columbia Government Real Property Act of 2006.
    Sec. 621.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds 
made available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and 
the Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act 
may be used for the interagency funding and sponsorship of a 
joint advisory committee to advise on emerging regulatory 
issues.
    Sec. 622.  Specific projects contained in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
accompanying this Act (H. Rept. 111-202) that are considered 
congressional earmarks for purposes of clause 9 of rule XXI of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, when intended to be 
awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under a full 
and open competition.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving appropriated funds under this or any 
other Act for fiscal year 2010 shall obligate or expend any 
such funds, unless such department, agency, or instrumentality 
has in place, and will continue to administer in good faith, a 
written policy designed to ensure that all of its workplaces 
are free from the illegal use, possession, or distribution of 
controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled Substances 
Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the 
maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 
Stat. 810), for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle 
(exclusive of buses, ambulances, law enforcement, and 
undercover surveillance vehicles), is hereby fixed at $13,197 
except station wagons for which the maximum shall be $13,631: 
Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed 
$3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 
for special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the 
limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded by more 
than 5 percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for 
demonstration under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid 
Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976: 
Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels 
vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost 
of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year 
available for expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the 
activity concerned, are hereby made available for quarters 
allowances and cost-of-living allowances, in accordance with 5 
U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or 
any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States 
(including any agency the majority of the stock of which is 
owned by the Government of the United States) whose post of 
duty is in the continental United States unless such person: 
(1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person who is 
lawfully admitted for permanent residence and is seeking 
citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a 
person who is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is 
granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration 
of intention to become a lawful permanent resident and then a 
citizen when eligible; or (4) is a person who owes allegiance 
to the United States: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be 
considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this 
section with respect to his or her status are being complied 
with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and upon conviction, 
shall be fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more 
than 1 year, or both: Provided further, That the above penal 
clause shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, 
any other provisions of existing law: Provided further, That 
any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to the 
provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by 
the Federal Government: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any person who is an officer or employee of 
the Government of the United States on the date of enactment of 
this Act, or to international broadcasters employed by the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to temporary employment of 
translators, or to temporary employment in the field service 
(not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided 
further, That this section does not apply to the employment as 
Wildland firefighters for not more than 120 days of nonresident 
aliens employed by the Department of the Interior or the USDA 
Forest Service pursuant to an agreement with another country.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or 
agency during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, 
including maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be 
available for payment to the General Services Administration 
for charges for space and services and those expenses of 
renovation and alteration of buildings and facilities which 
constitute public improvements performed in accordance with the 
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the Public 
Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other 
applicable law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any 
other Act, all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and 
use funds resulting from the sale of materials, including 
Federal records disposed of pursuant to a records schedule 
recovered through recycling or waste prevention programs. Such 
funds shall be available until expended for the following 
purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, 
        and recycling programs as described in Executive Order 
        No. 13423 (January 24, 2007), including any such 
        programs adopted prior to the effective date of the 
        Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management 
        programs, including, but not limited to, the 
        development and implementation of hazardous waste 
        management and pollution prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or 
        as deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal 
        agency.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act 
for administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the 
corporations and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall be available, in addition to objects 
for which such funds are otherwise available, for rent in the 
District of Columbia; services in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 
3109; and the objects specified under this head, all the 
provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure of 
such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they 
are made available: Provided, That in the event any functions 
budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be available for interagency financing 
of boards (except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, 
councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not they 
are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and 
specific statutory approval to receive financial support from 
more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, 
or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant 
to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
and except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of 
any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2010, by this or 
any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee 
described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States 
Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration 
        of the limitation imposed by the comparable section for 
        previous fiscal years until the normal effective date 
        of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to 
        take effect in fiscal year 2010, in an amount that 
        exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade and 
        step of the applicable wage schedule in accordance with 
        such section; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder 
        of fiscal year 2010, in an amount that exceeds, as a 
        result of a wage survey adjustment, the rate payable 
        under paragraph (1) by more than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect 
                in fiscal year 2010 under section 5303 of title 
                5, United States Code, in the rates of pay 
                under the General Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall 
                average percentage of the locality-based 
                comparability payments taking effect in fiscal 
                year 2010 under section 5304 of such title 
                (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments 
                which was effective in the previous fiscal year 
                under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
prevailing rate employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) 
of section 5342(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no 
employee covered by section 5348 of such title, may be paid 
during the periods for which subsection (a) is in effect at a 
rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to 
an employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from 
a schedule not in existence on September 30, 2009, shall be 
determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of 
Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of 
premium pay for employees subject to this section may not be 
changed from the rates in effect on September 30, 2009, except 
to the extent determined by the Office of Personnel Management 
to be consistent with the purpose of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for 
service performed after September 30, 2009.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any 
requirement or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or 
basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay payable after the 
application of this section shall be treated as the rate of 
salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit 
or require the payment to any employee covered by this section 
at a rate in excess of the rate that would be payable were this 
section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for 
exceptions to the limitations imposed by this section if the 
Office determines that such exceptions are necessary to ensure 
the recruitment or retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 711.  During the period in which the head of any 
department or agency, or any other officer or civilian employee 
of the Federal Government appointed by the President of the 
United States, holds office, no funds may be obligated or 
expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or redecorate the 
office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any 
such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate. For the 
purposes of this section, the term ``office'' shall include the 
entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well as 
any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of 
which is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 712.  Notwithstanding section 31 U.S.C. 1346, or 
section 708 of this Act, funds made available for the current 
fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
interagency funding of national security and emergency 
preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit 
multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
provided by Executive Order No. 12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 713. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal 
department, agency, or other instrumentality for the salaries 
or expenses of any employee appointed to a position of a 
confidential or policy-determining character excepted from the 
competitive service pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3302, without a 
certification to the Office of Personnel Management from the 
head of the Federal department, agency, or other 
instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee that the 
Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to 
Federal employees or members of the armed forces detailed to or 
from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;
            (5) the offices within the Department of Defense 
        for the collection of specialized national foreign 
        intelligence through reconnaissance programs;
            (6) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (7) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, 
        Air Force, and Marine Corps, the Department of Homeland 
        Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the 
        Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the 
        Department of the Treasury, and the Department of 
        Energy performing intelligence functions; and
            (8) the Director of National Intelligence or the 
        Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
    Sec. 714.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be available for the payment of the 
salary of any officer or employee of the Federal Government, 
who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens 
        to prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee 
        of the Federal Government from having any direct oral 
        or written communication or contact with any Member, 
        committee, or subcommittee of the Congress in 
        connection with any matter pertaining to the employment 
        of such other officer or employee or pertaining to the 
        department or agency of such other officer or employee 
        in any way, irrespective of whether such communication 
        or contact is at the initiative of such other officer 
        or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, 
        demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or 
        performance or efficiency rating, denies promotion to, 
        relocates, reassigns, transfers, disciplines, or 
        discriminates in regard to any employment right, 
        entitlement, or benefit, or any term or condition of 
        employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit 
        any of the foregoing actions with respect to such other 
        officer or employee, by reason of any communication or 
        contact of such other officer or employee with any 
        Member, committee, or subcommittee of the Congress as 
        described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 715. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be obligated or expended for any employee 
training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, 
        skills, and abilities bearing directly upon the 
        performance of official duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels 
        of emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of 
        the content and methods to be used in the training and 
        written end of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new 
        age'' belief systems as defined in Equal Employment 
        Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
        September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
        participants--personal values or lifestyle outside the 
        workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
directly upon the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 716.  No funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard 
Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure 
policy, form, or agreement if such policy, form, or agreement 
does not contain the following provisions: ``These restrictions 
are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or 
otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or 
liabilities created by Executive Order No. 12958; section 7211 
of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to 
Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 
2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the 
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety 
threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 
(50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could 
expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which 
protect against disclosure that may compromise the national 
security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of 
title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The 
definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and 
liabilities created by said Executive order and listed statutes 
are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'': 
Provided, That notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a 
nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed 
by a person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or 
intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or 
officer of the United States Government, may contain provisions 
appropriate to the particular activity for which such document 
is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, 
require that the person will not disclose any classified 
information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States 
Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear 
that they do not bar disclosures to Congress, or to an 
authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of 
Justice, that are essential to reporting a substantial 
violation of law.
    Sec. 717.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any 
other Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, 
other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, and for 
the preparation, distribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, 
booklet, publication, radio, television, or film presentation 
designed to support or defeat legislation pending before the 
Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 718.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act may be used by an agency to provide a Federal 
employee's home address to any labor organization except when 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or when such 
disclosure has been ordered by a court of competent 
jurisdiction.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds made available in this Act or 
any other Act may be used to provide any non-public information 
such as mailing or telephone lists to any person or any 
organization outside of the Federal Government without the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 720.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, 
including by private contractor, for publicity or propaganda 
purposes within the United States not heretofore authorized by 
the Congress.
    Sec. 721. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 
        U.S.C. 105;
            (2) includes a military department, as defined 
        under section 102 of such title, the Postal Service, 
        and the Postal Regulatory Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the Government Accountability 
        Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations 
to use such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency 
shall use official time in an honest effort to perform official 
duties. An employee not under a leave system, including a 
Presidential appointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable 
proportion of such employee's time in the performance of 
official duties.
    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 
of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year 
by this or any other Act to any department or agency, which is 
a member of the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board 
(FASAB), shall be available to finance an appropriate share of 
FASAB administrative costs.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 
of this Act, the head of each Executive department and agency 
is hereby authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General 
Services Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the 
approval of the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card and 
other contracts: Provided, That these funds shall be 
administered by the Administrator of General Services to 
support Government-wide financial, information technology, 
procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, and 
activities, as approved by the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate 
interagency groups designated by the Director (including the 
President's Management Council for overall management 
improvement initiatives, the Chief Financial Officers Council 
for financial management initiatives, the Chief Information 
Officers Council for information technology initiatives, the 
Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for 
procurement initiatives, and the Performance Improvement 
Council for performance improvement initiatives): Provided 
further, That the total funds transferred or reimbursed shall 
not exceed $17,000,000: Provided further, That such transfers 
or reimbursements may only be made after 15 days following 
notification of the Committees on Appropriations by the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 724.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal 
building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are 
otherwise authorized to be present at the location.
    Sec. 725.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 
of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year 
by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar 
efforts to carry out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or 
entities: Provided, That the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to 
the Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
Science and Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 726.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other 
publications involving the distribution of Federal funds shall 
indicate the agency providing the funds, the Catalog of Federal 
Domestic Assistance Number, as applicable, and the amount 
provided: Provided, That this provision shall apply to direct 
payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State 
receiving Federal funds.
    Sec. 727. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in 
this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation 
        of data, derived from any means, that includes any 
        personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any Federal Government 
        Internet site of the agency; or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, 
        review, or obtain any aggregation of data, derived from 
        any means, that includes any personally identifiable 
        information relating to an individual's access to or 
        use of any nongovernmental Internet site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection 
(a) shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not 
        identify particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally 
        identifiable information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, 
        regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in accordance with 
        applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that 
        is a system security action taken by the operator of an 
        Internet site and is necessarily incident to providing 
        the Internet site services or to protecting the rights 
        or property of the provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in 
        law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of 
        the agency's supervised institutions, including 
        assessing safety and soundness, overall financial 
        condition, management practices and policies and 
        compliance with applicable standards as provided in 
        law.
    Sec. 728. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a 
provision providing prescription drug coverage, except where 
the contract also includes a provision for contraceptive 
coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract 
with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for 
        the plan objects to such coverage on the basis of 
        religious beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into 
or renews a contract under this section may not subject any 
individual to discrimination on the basis that the individual 
refuses to prescribe or otherwise provide for contraceptives 
because such activities would be contrary to the individual's 
religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require 
coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 729.  The Congress of the United States recognizes the 
United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) as the official anti-
doping agency for Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic sport 
in the United States.
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated for official travel by Federal departments 
and agencies may be used by such departments and agencies, if 
consistent with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-126 
regarding official travel for Government personnel, to 
participate in the fractional aircraft ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 731.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or 
any other appropriations Act may be used to implement or 
enforce restrictions or limitations on the Coast Guard 
Congressional Fellowship Program, or to implement the proposed 
regulations of the Office of Personnel Management to add 
sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 5 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal Register, 
volume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the 
detail of executive branch employees to the legislative 
branch).
    Sec. 732.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
executive branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease 
any additional facilities, except within or contiguous to 
existing locations, to be used for the purpose of conducting 
Federal law enforcement training without the advance approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the 
temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or 
other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in 
existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 733. (a) For fiscal year 2010, no funds shall be 
available for transfers or reimbursements to the E-Government 
initiatives sponsored by the Office of Management and Budget 
prior to 15 days following submission of a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate by the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget and receipt of approval to transfer funds by the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate.
    (b) The report in subsection (a) and other required 
justification materials shall include at a minimum--
            (1) a description of each initiative including but 
        not limited to its objectives, benefits, development 
        status, risks, cost effectiveness (including estimated 
        net costs or savings to the government), and the 
        estimated date of full operational capability;
            (2) the total development cost of each initiative 
        by fiscal year including costs to date, the estimated 
        costs to complete its development to full operational 
        capability, and estimated annual operations and 
        maintenance costs; and
            (3) the sources and distribution of funding by 
        fiscal year and by agency and bureau for each 
        initiative including agency contributions to date and 
        estimated future contributions by agency.
    (c) No funds shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for new E-Government initiatives without the 
explicit approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 734.  Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United 
States Code, and section 708 of this Act and any other 
provision of law, the head of each appropriate executive 
department and agency shall transfer to or reimburse the 
Federal Aviation Administration, upon the direction of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made 
available by this or any other Act for the purposes described 
below, and shall submit budget requests for such purposes. 
These funds shall be administered by the Federal Aviation 
Administration, in consultation with the appropriate 
interagency groups designated by the Director and shall be used 
to ensure the uninterrupted, continuous operation of the Midway 
Atoll Airfield by the Federal Aviation Administration pursuant 
to an operational agreement with the Department of the Interior 
for the entirety of fiscal year 2010 and any period thereafter 
that precedes the enactment of the Financial Services and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2011. The Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall mandate the necessary 
transfers after determining an equitable allocation between the 
appropriate executive departments and agencies of the 
responsibility for funding the continuous operation of the 
Midway Atoll Airfield based on, but not limited to, potential 
use, interest in maintaining aviation safety, and applicability 
to governmental operations and agency mission. The total funds 
transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $6,000,000 for any 
12-month period. Such sums shall be sufficient to ensure 
continued operation of the airfield throughout the period cited 
above. Funds shall be available for operation of the airfield 
or airfield-related capital upgrades. The Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
of such transfers or reimbursements within 15 days of this Act. 
Such transfers or reimbursements shall begin within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 735.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to begin or 
announce a study or public-private competition regarding the 
conversion to contractor performance of any function performed 
by Federal employees pursuant to Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 or any other administrative regulation, 
directive, or policy.
    Sec. 736.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, 
none of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act may be 
used by an executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged 
news story intended for broadcast or distribution in the United 
States, unless the story includes a clear notification within 
the text or audio of the prepackaged news story that the 
prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that executive 
branch agency.
    Sec. 737.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United 
States Code (popularly known as the Privacy Act) and 
regulations implementing that section.
    Sec. 738.  Each executive department and agency shall 
evaluate the creditworthiness of an individual before issuing 
the individual a government travel charge card. Such 
evaluations for individually billed travel charge cards shall 
include an assessment of the individual's consumer report from 
a consumer reporting agency as those terms are defined in 
section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (Public Law 91-
508): Provided, That the department or agency may not issue a 
government travel charge card to an individual that either 
lacks a credit history or is found to have an unsatisfactory 
credit history as a result of this evaluation: Provided 
further, That this restriction shall not preclude issuance of a 
restricted-use charge, debit, or stored value card made in 
accordance with agency procedures to: (1) an individual with an 
unsatisfactory credit history where such card is used to pay 
travel expenses and the agency determines there is no suitable 
alternative payment mechanism available before issuing the 
card; or (2) an individual who lacks a credit history. Each 
executive department and agency shall establish guidelines and 
procedures for disciplinary actions to be taken against agency 
personnel for improper, fraudulent, or abusive use of 
government charge cards, which shall include appropriate 
disciplinary actions for use of charge cards for purposes, and 
at establishments, that are inconsistent with the official 
business of the Department or agency or with applicable 
standards of conduct.
    Sec. 739. (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section 
the following definitions apply:
            (1) Great lakes.--The terms ``Great Lakes'' and 
        ``Great Lakes State'' have the same meanings as such 
        terms have in section 506 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 1962d-22).
            (2) Great lakes restoration activities.--The term 
        ``Great Lakes restoration activities'' means any 
        Federal or State activity primarily or entirely within 
        the Great Lakes watershed that seeks to improve the 
        overall health of the Great Lakes ecosystem.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 45 days after submission of the 
budget of the President to Congress, the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, in coordination with the Governor of 
each Great Lakes State and the Great Lakes Interagency Task 
Force, shall submit to the appropriate authorizing and 
appropriating committees of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a financial report, certified by the Secretary 
of each agency that has budget authority for Great Lakes 
restoration activities, containing--
            (1) an interagency budget crosscut report that--
                    (A) displays the budget proposed, including 
                any planned interagency or intra-agency 
                transfer, for each of the Federal agencies that 
                carries out Great Lakes restoration activities 
                in the upcoming fiscal year, separately 
                reporting the amount of funding to be provided 
                under existing laws pertaining to the Great 
                Lakes ecosystem; and
                    (B) identifies all expenditures since 
                fiscal year 2004 by the Federal Government and 
                State governments for Great Lakes restoration 
                activities;
            (2) a detailed accounting of all funds received and 
        obligated by all Federal agencies and, to the extent 
        available, State agencies using Federal funds, for 
        Great Lakes restoration activities during the current 
        and previous fiscal years;
            (3) a budget for the proposed projects (including a 
        description of the project, authorization level, and 
        project status) to be carried out in the upcoming 
        fiscal year with the Federal portion of funds for 
        activities; and
            (4) a listing of all projects to be undertaken in 
        the upcoming fiscal year with the Federal portion of 
        funds for activities.
    Sec. 740. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be 
used for any Federal Government contract with any foreign 
incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic 
corporation under section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive 
        subsection (a) with respect to any Federal Government 
        contract under the authority of such Secretary if the 
        Secretary determines that the waiver is required in the 
        interest of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a 
        waiver under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance 
        to Congress.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the 
enactment of this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to 
such contract.
    Sec. 741.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or 
apply the rule entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the 
Office of Personnel Management in the Federal Register on April 
15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 20180 et seq.).
    Sec. 742. (a) Section 748 of the Financial Services and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8, 
division D) is repealed.
    (b) Hereafter, the President may modify or replace 
Executive Order No. 13423 if the President determines that a 
revised or new executive order will achieve equal or better 
environmental or energy efficiency results.
    Sec. 743. (a) Service Contract Inventory Requirement.--
            (1) Guidance.--Not later than March 1, 2010, the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
        develop and disseminate guidance to aid executive 
        agencies in establishing systems for the collection of 
        information required to meet the requirements of this 
        section and to ensure consistency of inventories across 
        agencies.
            (2) Report.--Not later than July 31, 2010, the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
        submit a report to Congress on the status of efforts to 
        enable executive agencies to prepare the inventories 
        required under paragraph (3), including the 
        development, as appropriate, of guidance, 
        methodologies, and technical tools.
            (3) Inventory contents.--Not later than December 
        31, 2010, and annually thereafter, the head of each 
        executive agency required to submit an inventory in 
        accordance with the Federal Activities Inventory Reform 
        Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-270; 31 U.S.C. 501 note), 
        other than the Department of Defense, shall submit to 
        the Office of Management and Budget an annual inventory 
        of service contracts awarded or extended through the 
        exercise of an option on or after April 1, 2010, for or 
        on behalf of such agency. For each service contract, 
        the entry for an inventory under this section shall 
        include, for the preceding fiscal year, the following:
                    (A) A description of the services purchased 
                by the executive agency and the role the 
                services played in achieving agency objectives, 
                regardless of whether such a purchase was made 
                through a contract or task order.
                    (B) The organizational component of the 
                executive agency administering the contract, 
                and the organizational component of the agency 
                whose requirements are being met through 
                contractor performance of the service.
                    (C) The total dollar amount obligated for 
                services under the contract and the funding 
                source for the contract.
                    (D) The total dollar amount invoiced for 
                services under the contract.
                    (E) The contract type and date of award.
                    (F) The name of the contractor and place of 
                performance.
                    (G) The number and work location of 
                contractor and subcontractor employees, 
                expressed as full-time equivalents for direct 
                labor, compensated under the contract.
                    (H) Whether the contract is a personal 
                services contract.
                    (I) Whether the contract was awarded on a 
                noncompetitive basis, regardless of date of 
                award.
    (b) Form.--Reports required under this section shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
annex.
    (c) Publication.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the inventory under subsection (a)(3) is required to be 
submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, the head of 
each executive agency shall--
            (1) make the inventory available to the public; and
            (2) publish in the Federal Register a notice that 
        the inventory is available to the public.
    (d) Government-Wide Inventory Report.--Not later than 90 
days after the deadline for submitting inventories under 
subsection (a)(3), and annually thereafter, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall submit to Congress and 
make publicly available on the Office of Management and Budget 
website a report on the inventories submitted. The report shall 
identify whether each agency required to submit an inventory 
under subsection (a)(3) has met such requirement and summarize 
the information submitted by each executive agency required to 
have a Chief Financial Officer pursuant to section 901 of title 
31, United States Code.
    (e) Review and Planning Requirements.--Not later than 180 
days after the deadline for submitting inventories under 
subsection (a)(3) for an executive agency, the head of the 
executive agency, or an official designated by the agency head 
shall--
            (1) review the contracts and information in the 
        inventory;
            (2) ensure that--
                    (A) each contract in the inventory that is 
                a personal services contract has been entered 
                into, and is being performed, in accordance 
                with applicable laws and regulations;
                    (B) the agency is giving special management 
                attention to functions that are closely 
                associated with inherently governmental 
                functions;
                    (C) the agency is not using contractor 
                employees to perform inherently governmental 
                functions;
                    (D) the agency has specific safeguards and 
                monitoring systems in place to ensure that work 
                being performed by contractors has not changed 
                or expanded during performance to become an 
                inherently governmental function;
                    (E) the agency is not using contractor 
                employees to perform critical functions in such 
                a way that could affect the ability of the 
                agency to maintain control of its mission and 
                operations; and
                    (F) there are sufficient internal agency 
                resources to manage and oversee contracts 
                effectively;
            (3) identify contracts that have been poorly 
        performed, as determined by a contracting officer, 
        because of excessive costs or inferior quality; and
            (4) identify contracts that should be considered 
        for conversion to--
                    (A) performance by Federal employees of the 
                executive agency in accordance with agency 
                insourcing guidelines required under section 
                736 of the Financial Services and General 
                Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 
                111-8, division D); or
                    (B) an alternative acquisition approach 
                that would better enable the agency to 
                efficiently utilize its assets and achieve its 
                public mission.
    (f) Report on Actions Taken in Response to Annual 
Inventory.--Not later than one year after submitting an annual 
inventory under subsection (a)(3), the head of each executive 
agency submitting such an inventory shall submit to the Office 
of Management and Budget a report summarizing the actions taken 
pursuant to subsection (e), including any actions taken to 
consider and convert functions from contractor to Federal 
employee performance. The report shall be included as an 
attachment to the next annual inventory and made publicly 
available in accordance with subsection (c).
    (g) Submission of Service Contract Inventory Before Public-
Private Competition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, beginning in fiscal year 2011, if an executive agency has 
not submitted to the Office of Management and Budget the 
inventory required under subsection (a)(3) for the prior fiscal 
year, the agency may not begin, plan for, or announce a study 
or public-private competition regarding the conversion to 
contractor performance of any function performed by Federal 
employees pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-76 or any other administrative regulation or directive until 
such time as the inventory is submitted for the prior fiscal 
year.
    (h) GAO Reports on Implementation.--
            (1) Report on guidance.--Not later than 120 days 
        after submission of the report by the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget required under 
        subsection (a)(2), the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall report on the guidance issued and 
        actions taken by the Director. The report shall be 
        submitted to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Reports on inventories.--
                    (A) Initial inventory.--Not later than 
                September 30, 2011, the Comptroller General of 
                the United States shall submit a report to the 
                Committees named in the preceding paragraph on 
                the initial implementation by executive 
                agencies of the inventory requirement in 
                subsection (a)(3) with respect to inventories 
                required to be submitted by December 31, 2010.
                    (B) Second inventory.--Not later than 
                September 30, 2012, the Comptroller General 
                shall submit a report to the same Committees on 
                annual inventories required to be submitted by 
                December 31, 2011.
            (3) Periodic briefings.--The Comptroller General 
        shall provide periodic briefings, as may be requested 
        by the Committees, on matters related to implementation 
        of this section.
    (i) Executive Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``executive agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 
4 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
403).
    Sec. 744. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for 
employees under the statutory pay systems that takes effect in 
fiscal year 2010 under section 5303 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be an increase of 1.5 percent, and the overall 
average percentage of the adjustments taking effect in such 
fiscal year under sections 5304-5304a of such title 5 shall be 
an increase of 0.5 percent (with comparability payments to be 
determined and allocated among pay localities by the 
President). Adjustments under the preceding sentence shall also 
apply to civilian employees in the Department of Homeland 
Security and in the Department of Defense. All adjustments 
under this subsection shall be effective as of the first day of 
the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 
1, 2010.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 710, the adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in 
fiscal year 2010 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be no less than the percentages in 
subsection (a) as employees in the same location whose rates of 
basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory pay systems 
under section 5303 and 5304-5304a of title 5, United States 
Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations where there are no 
employees whose pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 
5304-5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate employees 
described in section 5343(a)(5) of such title 5 shall be 
considered to be located in the pay locality designated as 
``Rest of U.S.'' pursuant to section 5304 of such title 5 for 
purposes of this subsection.
    (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations, which are made to each applicable department or 
agency for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 745. (a) Section 5538 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(b) Amounts under this section shall be payable with 
respect to each pay period (which would otherwise apply if the 
employee's civilian employment had not been interrupted)--
            ``(1) during which such employee is entitled to re-
        employment rights under chapter 43 of title 38 with 
        respect to the position from which such employee is 
        absent (as referred to in subsection (a)); and
            ``(2) for which such employee does not otherwise 
        receive basic pay (including by taking any annual, 
        military, or other paid leave) to which such employee 
        is entitled by virtue of such employee's civilian 
        employment with the Government.''.
    (b) The amendments made by this section shall take effect 
on the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning 
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 746.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
reference to ``this Act'' contained in any title other than 
title IV or VIII shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
    Sec. 747. (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section 
the following definitions apply:
            (1) The term ``covered manufacturer'' means--
                    (A) an automobile manufacturer in which the 
                United States Government has an ownership 
                interest, or to which the Government has 
                provided financial assistance under title I of 
                the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 
                2008; or
                    (B) an automobile manufacturer which 
                acquired more than half of the assets of an 
                automobile manufacturer in which the United 
                States Government has an ownership interest, or 
                to which the Government has provided financial 
                assistance under title I of the Emergency 
                Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
            (2) The term ``covered dealership'' means an 
        automobile dealership that had a franchise agreement 
        for the sale and service of vehicles of a brand or 
        brands with a covered manufacturer in effect as of 
        October 3, 2008, and such agreement was terminated, not 
        assigned in the form existing on October 3, 2008 to 
        another covered manufacturer in connection with an 
        acquisition of assets related to the manufacture of 
        that vehicle brand or brands, not renewed, or not 
        continued during the period beginning on October 3, 
        2008, and ending on December 31, 2010.
    (b) A covered dealership that was not lawfully terminated 
under applicable State law on or before April 29, 2009, shall 
have the right to seek, through binding arbitration, 
continuation, or reinstatement of a franchise agreement, or to 
be added as a franchisee to the dealer network of the covered 
manufacturer in the geographical area where the covered 
dealership was located when its franchise agreement was 
terminated, not assigned, not renewed, or not continued. Such 
continuation, reinstatement, or addition shall be limited to 
each brand owned and manufactured by the covered manufacturer 
at the time the arbitration commences, to the extent that the 
covered dealership had been a dealer for such brand at the time 
such dealer's franchise agreement was terminated, not assigned, 
not renewed, or not continued.
    (c) Before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, a covered manufacturer shall 
provide to each covered dealership related to such covered 
manufacturer a summary of the terms and the rights accorded 
under this section to a covered dealership and the specific 
criteria pursuant to which such dealer was terminated, was not 
renewed, or was not assumed and assigned to a covered 
manufacturer.
    (d) A covered dealership may elect to pursue the right to 
binding arbitration with the appropriate covered manufacturer. 
Such election must occur within 40 days of the date of 
enactment. The arbitration process must commence as soon as 
practicable thereafter with the selection of the arbitrator and 
conclude with the case being submitted to the arbitrator for 
deliberation within 180 days of the date of enactment of this 
Act. The arbitrator may extend the time periods in this 
subsection for up to 30 days for good cause. The covered 
manufacturer and the covered dealership may present any 
relevant information during the arbitration. The arbitrator 
shall balance the economic interest of the covered dealership, 
the economic interest of the covered manufacturer, and the 
economic interest of the public at large and shall decide, 
based on that balancing, whether or not the covered dealership 
should be added to the dealer network of the covered 
manufacturer. The factors considered by the arbitrator shall 
include (1) the covered dealership's profitability in 2006, 
2007, 2008, and 2009, (2) the covered manufacturer's overall 
business plan, (3) the covered dealership's current economic 
viability, (4) the covered dealership's satisfaction of the 
performance objectives established pursuant to the applicable 
franchise agreement, (5) the demographic and geographic 
characteristics of the covered dealership's market territory, 
(6) the covered dealership's performance in relation to the 
criteria used by the covered manufacturer to terminate, not 
renew, not assume or not assign the covered dealership's 
franchise agreement, and (7) the length of experience of the 
covered dealership. The arbitrator shall issue a written 
determination no later than 7 business days after the 
arbitrator determines that case has been fully submitted. At a 
minimum, the written determination shall include (1) a 
description of the covered dealership, (2) a clear statement 
indicating whether the franchise agreement at issue is to be 
renewed, continued, assigned or assumed by the covered 
manufacturer, (3) the key facts relied upon by the arbitrator 
in making the determination, and (4) an explanation of how the 
balance of economic interests supports the arbitrator's 
determination.
    (e) The arbitrator shall be selected from the list of 
qualified arbitrators maintained by the Regional Office of the 
American Arbitration Association (AAA), in the Region where the 
dealership is located, by mutual agreement of the covered 
dealership and covered manufacturer. If agreement cannot be 
reached on a suitable arbitrator, the parties shall request AAA 
to select the arbitrator. There will be no depositions in the 
proceedings, and discovery shall be limited to requests for 
documents specific to the covered dealership. The parties shall 
be responsible for their own expenses, fees, and costs, and 
shall share equally all other costs associated with the 
arbitration, such as arbitrator fees, meeting room charges, and 
administrative costs. The arbitration shall be conducted in the 
State where the covered dealership is located. Parties will 
have the option of conducting arbitration electronically and 
telephonically, by mutual agreement of both parties. The 
arbitrator shall not award compensatory, punitive, or exemplary 
damages to any party. If the arbitrator finds in favor of a 
covered dealership, the covered manufacturer shall as soon as 
practicable, but not later than 7 business days after receipt 
of the arbitrator's determination, provide the dealer a 
customary and usual letter of intent to enter into a sales and 
service agreement. After executing the sales and service 
agreement and successfully completing the operational 
prerequisites set forth therein, a covered dealership shall 
return to the covered manufacturer any financial compensation 
provided by the covered manufacturer in consideration of the 
covered manufacturer's initial determination to terminate, not 
renew, not assign or not assume the covered dealership's 
applicable franchise agreement.
    (f) Any legally binding agreement resulting from a 
voluntary negotiation between a covered manufacturer and 
covered dealership(s) shall not be considered inconsistent with 
this provision and any covered dealership that is a party to 
such agreement shall forfeit the right to arbitration 
established by this provision.
    (g) Notwithstanding the requirements of this provision, 
nothing herein shall prevent a covered manufacturer from 
lawfully terminating a covered dealership in accordance with 
applicable State law.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 801.  Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified 
within an appropriation for particular purposes or objects of 
expenditure, such amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be 
considered as the maximum amount that may be expended for said 
purpose or object rather than an amount set apart exclusively 
therefor.
    Sec. 802.  Appropriations in this Act shall be available 
for expenses of travel and for the payment of dues of 
organizations concerned with the work of the District of 
Columbia government, when authorized by the Mayor, or, in the 
case of the Council of the District of Columbia, funds may be 
expended with the authorization of the Chairman of the Council.
    Sec. 803.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds 
of the District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for 
making refunds and for the payment of legal settlements or 
judgments that have been entered against the District of 
Columbia government.
    Sec. 804. (a) None of the Federal funds provided in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes or 
implementation of any policy including boycott designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
State legislature.
    (b) The District of Columbia may use local funds provided 
in this title to carry out lobbying activities on any matter.
    Sec. 805. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this 
Act to the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and 
District government agencies, that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from 
any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by 
the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this 
Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditures for an 
agency through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or 
        responsibility center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically 
        denied, limited or increased under this Act;
            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
        any program, project, or responsibility center for 
        which funds have been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project 
        previously deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds 
        in excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
        less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel 
        assigned to a specific program, project or 
        responsibility center,

unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified in writing 15 days 
in advance of the reprogramming.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to 
approve and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of 
local funds under this title through November 1, 2010.
    Sec. 806.  Consistent with the provisions of section 
1301(a) of title 31, United States Code, appropriations under 
this Act shall be applied only to the objects for which the 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act 
may be used by the District of Columbia to provide for 
salaries, expenses, or other costs associated with the offices 
of United States Senator or United States Representative under 
section 4(d) of the District of Columbia Statehood 
Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3-171; 
D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 808.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
none of the funds made available by this Act or by any other 
Act may be used to provide any officer or employee of the 
District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of 
the officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of 
this section, the term ``official duties'' does not include 
travel between the officer's or employee's residence and 
workplace, except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan 
        Police Department who resides in the District of 
        Columbia or a District of Columbia government employee 
        as may otherwise be designated by the Chief of the 
        Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer 
        or employee of the District of Columbia Fire and 
        Emergency Medical Services Department who resides in 
        the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day 
        or is otherwise designated by the Fire Chief;
            (3) at the discretion of the Director of the 
        Department of Corrections, an officer or employee of 
        the District of Columbia Department of Corrections who 
        resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 
        hours a day or is otherwise designated by the Director;
            (4) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
            (5) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
        Columbia.
    Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this 
Act may be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or 
any other officer or entity of the District government to 
provide assistance for any petition drive or civil action which 
seeks to require Congress to provide for voting representation 
in Congress for the District of Columbia.
    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia 
Attorney General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in 
private lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the 
District government regarding such lawsuits.
    Sec. 810.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act 
may be used to distribute any needle or syringe for the purpose 
of preventing the spread of blood borne pathogens in any 
location that has been determined by the local public health or 
local law enforcement authorities to be inappropriate for such 
distribution.
    Sec. 811.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent 
the Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from 
addressing the issue of the provision of contraceptive coverage 
by health insurance plans, but it is the intent of Congress 
that any legislation enacted on such issue should include a 
``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions for religious 
beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 812.  The Mayor of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate annual reports addressing--
            (1) crime, including the homicide rate, 
        implementation of community policing, the number of 
        police officers on local beats, and the closing down of 
        open-air drug markets;
            (2) access to substance and alcohol abuse 
        treatment, including the number of treatment slots, the 
        number of people served, the number of people on 
        waiting lists, and the effectiveness of treatment 
        programs, the retention rates in treatment programs, 
        and the recidivism/re-arrest rates for treatment 
        participants;
            (3) management of parolees and pre-trial violent 
        offenders, including the number of halfway houses 
        escapes and steps taken to improve monitoring and 
        supervision of halfway house residents to reduce the 
        number of escapes to be provided in consultation with 
        the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for 
        the District of Columbia;
            (4) education, including access to special 
        education services and student achievement to be 
        provided in consultation with the District of Columbia 
        Public Schools and the District of Columbia public 
        charter schools, repeated grade rates, high school 
        graduation rates, post-secondary education attendance 
        rates, and teen pregnancy rates;
            (5) improvement in basic District services, 
        including rat control and abatement;
            (6) application for and management of Federal 
        grants, including the number and type of grants for 
        which the District was eligible but failed to apply and 
        the number and type of grants awarded to the District 
        but for which the District failed to spend the amounts 
        received;
            (7) indicators of child and family well-being 
        including child living arrangements by family 
        structure, number of children aging out of foster care, 
        poverty rates by family structure, crime by family 
        structure, marriage rates by income quintile, and out-
        of-wedlock births; and
            (8) employment, including job status and 
        participation in assistance programs by income, 
        education and family structure.
    Sec. 813.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act 
may be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation 
to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the 
possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I substance 
under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or 
any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
    Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated under 
this Act shall be expended for any abortion except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
carried to term or where the pregnancy is the result of an act 
of rape or incest.
    Sec. 815. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for 
the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council of the 
District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating 
budget in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia 
government for fiscal year 2010 that is in the total amount of 
the approved appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data 
for personal services and other-than-personal services, 
respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which 
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia 
certifies that a reallocation is required to address 
unanticipated changes in program requirements.
    Sec. 816.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the 
District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council for the District of 
Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the 
District of Columbia Public Schools that aligns schools budgets 
to actual enrollment. The revised appropriated funds budget 
shall be in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, Sec. 1-
204.42).
    Sec. 817.  Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating 
funds may be transferred to the District of Columbia's 
enterprise and capital funds and such amounts, once 
transferred, shall retain appropriation authority consistent 
with the provisions of this Act.
    Sec. 818.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
reference to ``this Act'' contained in this title or in title 
IV shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of this 
title or of title IV.
    This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2010''.

   DIVISION D--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 (``WIA''), the Second Chance Act of 2007, and the Women in 
Apprenticeship and Non-Traditional Occupations Act of 1992, 
including the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other 
facilities, and the purchase of real property for training 
centers as authorized by the WIA; $3,828,530,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall be available. Of the amounts provided:
            (1) for grants to States for adult employment and 
        training activities, youth activities, and dislocated 
        worker employment and training activities, 
        $2,969,449,000 as follows:
                    (A) $861,540,000 for adult employment and 
                training activities, of which $149,540,000 
                shall be available for the period July 1, 2010, 
                through June 30, 2011, and of which 
                $712,000,000 shall be available for the period 
                October 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011;
                    (B) $924,069,000 for youth activities, 
                which shall be available for the period April 
                1, 2010 through June 30, 2011; and
                    (C) $1,183,840,000 for dislocated worker 
                employment and training activities, of which 
                $323,840,000 shall be available for the period 
                July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011, and of 
                which $860,000,000 shall be available for the 
                period October 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011:

        Provided, That notwithstanding the transfer limitation 
        under section 133(b)(4) of the WIA, up to 30 percent of 
        such funds may be transferred by a local board if 
        approved by the Governor: Provided further, That a 
        local board may award a contract to an institution of 
        higher education or other eligible training provider if 
        the local board determines that it would facilitate the 
        training of multiple individuals in high-demand 
        occupations, if such contract does not limit customer 
        choice;
            (2) for federally administered programs, 
        $470,038,000 as follows:
                    (A) $229,160,000 for the dislocated workers 
                assistance national reserve, of which 
                $29,160,000 shall be available for the period 
                July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011, and of 
                which $200,000,000 shall be available for the 
                period October 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011: 
                Provided, That funds provided to carry out 
                section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIA may be used to 
                provide assistance to a State for State-wide or 
                local use in order to address cases where there 
                have been worker dislocations across multiple 
                sectors or across multiple local areas and such 
                workers remain dislocated; coordinate the State 
                workforce development plan with emerging 
                economic development needs; and train such 
                eligible dislocated workers: Provided further, 
                That funds provided to carry out section 171(d) 
                of the WIA may be used for demonstration 
                projects that provide assistance to new 
                entrants in the workforce and incumbent 
                workers: Provided further, That none of the 
                funds shall be obligated to carry out section 
                173(e) of the WIA;
                    (B) $52,758,000 for Native American 
                programs, which shall be available for the 
                period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011;
                    (C) $84,620,000 for migrant and seasonal 
                farmworker programs under section 167 of the 
                WIA, including $78,410,000 for formula grants 
                (of which not less than 70 percent shall be for 
                employment and training services), $5,700,000 
                for migrant and seasonal housing (of which not 
                less than 70 percent shall be for permanent 
                housing), and $510,000 for other discretionary 
                purposes, which shall be available for the 
                period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011: 
                Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law or related regulation, the 
                Department of Labor shall take no action 
                limiting the number or proportion of eligible 
                participants receiving related assistance 
                services or discouraging grantees from 
                providing such services;
                    (D) $1,000,000 for carrying out the Women 
                in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional 
                Occupations Act, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011; 
                and
                    (E) $102,500,000 for YouthBuild activities 
                as described in section 173A of the WIA, which 
                shall be available for the period April 1, 2010 
                through June 30, 2011: Provided, That for 
                program year 2010 and each program year 
                thereafter, the YouthBuild program may serve an 
                individual who has dropped out of high school 
                and re-enrolled in an alternative school, if 
                that re-enrollment is part of a sequential 
                service strategy;
            (3) for national activities, $389,043,000, as 
        follows:
                    (A) $93,450,000 for Pilots, Demonstrations, 
                and Research, which shall be available for the 
                period April 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011, of 
                which $30,000,000 shall be for Transitional 
                Jobs activities, and shall not be subject to 
                the requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 
                171(c)(4)(D) of the WIA, and that up to 10 
                percent of the amount available for 
                Transitional Jobs activities may be used for 
                evaluation of such projects or transferred to 
                the Department of Health and Human Services 
                and/or the Department of Justice for support of 
                Transitional Jobs activities; and of which 
                $5,500,000 shall be for competitive grants to 
                address the employment and training needs of 
                young parents, and shall not be subject to the 
                requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 
                171(c)(4)(D) of the WIA; and of which 
                $48,889,000 shall be used for the projects, and 
                in the amounts, specified under the heading 
                ``Training and Employment Services'' in the 
                statement of the managers on the conference 
                report accompanying this Act: Provided, That 
                funding provided to carry out such projects 
                shall not be subject to the requirements of 
                sections 171(b)(2)(B) and 171(c)(4)(D) of the 
                WIA, the joint funding requirements of sections 
                171(b)(2)(A) and 171(c)(4)(A) of the WIA, or 
                any time limit requirements of sections 
                171(b)(2)(C) and 171(c)(4)(B) of the WIA;
                    (B) $108,493,000 for ex-offender 
                activities, under the authority of section 171 
                of the WIA and section 212 of the Second Chance 
                Act of 2007, which shall be available for the 
                period April 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011, 
                notwithstanding the requirements of section 
                171(b)(2)(B) or 171(c)(4)(D) of the WIA, of 
                which $15,000,000 shall be for competitive 
                grants to provide Transitional Job activities 
                for ex-offenders;
                    (C) $9,600,000 for Evaluation, which shall 
                be available for the period July 1, 2010 
                through June 30, 2011;
                    (D) $40,000,000 for activities that prepare 
                workers for careers in energy efficiency and 
                renewable energy as described in section 
                171(e)(1)(B) of the WIA, under the authority of 
                section 171 of the WIA, which shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2010 through 
                June 30, 2011, and which shall not be subject 
                to the requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 
                171(c)(4)(D);
                    (E) $125,000,000 for Career Pathways 
                Innovation Fund, under the authority of section 
                171 of the WIA, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011, 
                of which not less than $65,000,000 shall be 
                dedicated to activities that prepare workers 
                for careers in the health care sector, and 
                which shall not be subject to the requirements 
                of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 171(c)(4)(D); and
                    (F) $12,500,000 for the Workforce Data 
                Quality Initiative, under the authority of 
                section 171(c)(2) of the WIA, which shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2010 through 
                June 30, 2011, and which shall not be subject 
                to the requirements of section 171(c)(4)(D).

            community service employment for older americans

    To carry out title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 
(``OAA''), $825,425,000, of which $600,425,000 shall be 
available for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011 and 
of which $225,000,000 shall be available on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and remain available through December 31, 
2011: Provided, That notwithstanding sections 506 and 514 of 
the OAA, $225,000,000 shall be allotted within 45 days of the 
date of the enactment of this Act to current grantees that the 
Secretary of Labor determines can effectively utilize 
additional funding: Provided further, That within 15 days of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate a report on the procedure for allotting such 
funds: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading may, in accordance with section 517(c) of the OAA, be 
recaptured and reobligated.

              FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES

    For payments during fiscal year 2010 of trade adjustment 
benefit payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B of 
chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and section 246 
of that Act; and for training, employment and case management 
services, allowances for job search and relocation, and related 
State administrative expenses under part II of subchapter B of 
chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, including 
benefit payments, allowances, training, and related State 
administration provided pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
section 1891(b) of the Trade and Globalization Adjustment 
Assistance Act of 2009, $1,818,400,000, together with such 
amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to 
September 15, 2010.

     STATE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICE OPERATIONS

    For authorized administrative expenses, $86,403,000, 
together with not to exceed $3,977,278,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in 
the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the Trust Fund''), of which:
            (1) $3,195,645,000 from the Trust Fund is for 
        grants to States for the administration of State 
        unemployment insurance laws as authorized under title 
        III of the Social Security Act (including $10,000,000 
        to conduct in-person reemployment and eligibility 
        assessments and unemployment insurance improper payment 
        reviews), the administration of unemployment insurance 
        for Federal employees and for ex-service members as 
        authorized under 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and the 
        administration of trade readjustment allowances, 
        reemployment trade adjustment assistance, and 
        alternative trade adjustment assistance under the Trade 
        Act of 1974 and under section 1891(b) of the Trade and 
        Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009, and 
        shall be available for obligation by the States through 
        December 31, 2010, except that funds used for 
        automation acquisitions shall be available for 
        obligation by the States through September 30, 2012, 
        and funds used for unemployment insurance workloads 
        experienced by the States through September 30, 2010, 
        shall be available for Federal obligation through 
        December 31, 2010;
            (2) $11,310,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities necessary to support the administration of 
        the Federal-State unemployment insurance system;
            (3) $680,893,000 from the Trust Fund, together with 
        $22,683,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury, is 
        for grants to States in accordance with section 6 of 
        the Wagner-Peyser Act, and shall be available for 
        Federal obligation for the period July 1, 2010 through 
        June 30, 2011;
            (4) $20,994,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities of the Employment Service, including 
        administration of the work opportunity tax credit under 
        section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and 
        the provision of technical assistance and staff 
        training under the Wagner-Peyser Act, including not to 
        exceed $1,228,000 that may be used for amortization 
        payments to States which had independent retirement 
        plans in their State employment service agencies prior 
        to 1980;
            (5) $68,436,000 from the Trust Fund is for the 
        administration of foreign labor certifications and 
        related activities under the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act and related laws, of which $53,307,000 
        shall be available for the Federal administration of 
        such activities, and $15,129,000 shall be available for 
        grants to States for the administration of such 
        activities; and
            (6) $63,720,000 from the General Fund is to provide 
        workforce information, national electronic tools, and 
        one-stop system building under the Wagner-Peyser Act 
        and section 171 (e)(2)(C) of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998 and shall be available for Federal 
        obligation for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 
        2011:

Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2010 is projected by 
the Department of Labor to exceed 5,059,000, an additional 
$28,600,000 from the Trust Fund shall be available for 
obligation for every 100,000 increase in the AWIU level 
(including a pro rata amount for any increment less than 
100,000) to carry out title III of the Social Security Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act that are 
allotted to a State to carry out activities under title III of 
the Social Security Act may be used by such State to assist 
other States in carrying out activities under such title III if 
the other States include areas that have suffered a major 
disaster declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Labor may use funds appropriated for 
grants to States under title III of the Social Security Act to 
make payments on behalf of States for the use of the National 
Directory of New Hires under section 453(j)(8) of such Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act which are 
used to establish a national one-stop career center system, or 
which are used to support the national activities of the 
Federal-State unemployment insurance or immigration programs, 
may be obligated in contracts, grants, or agreements with non-
State entities: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this Act for activities authorized under title III of the 
Social Security Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used by 
States to fund integrated Unemployment Insurance and Employment 
Service automation efforts, notwithstanding cost allocation 
principles prescribed under the Office of Management and Budget 
Circular A-87: Provided further, That the Secretary, at the 
request of a State participating in a consortium with other 
States, may reallot funds allotted to such State under title 
III of the Social Security Act to other States participating in 
the consortium in order to carry out activities that benefit 
the administration of the unemployment compensation law of the 
State making the request.
    In addition, $50,000,000 from the Employment Security 
Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust Fund shall be 
available to conduct in-person reemployment and eligibility 
assessments and unemployment insurance improper payment 
reviews.

        ADVANCES TO THE UNEMPLOYMENT TRUST FUND AND OTHER FUNDS

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as 
authorized by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security 
Act, and to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized 
by section 9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and 
for nonrepayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8509, and to the ``Federal Unemployment 
Benefits and Allowances'' account, such sums as may be 
necessary, which shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2011.

                         PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

    For expenses of administering employment and training 
programs, $97,516,000, together with not to exceed $50,140,000, 
which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
Administration, $154,861,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION FUND

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (``Corporation'') 
is authorized to make such expenditures, including financial 
assistance authorized by subtitle E of title IV of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, within limits of funds 
and borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in 
accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 
U.S.C. 9104, as may be necessary in carrying out the program, 
including associated administrative expenses, through September 
30, 2010, for the Corporation: Provided, That none of the funds 
available to the Corporation for fiscal year 2010 shall be 
available for obligations for administrative expenses in excess 
of $464,067,000: Provided further, That to the extent that the 
number of new plan participants in plans terminated by the 
Corporation exceeds 100,000 in fiscal year 2010, an amount not 
to exceed an additional $9,200,000 shall be available through 
September 30, 2011 for obligation for administrative expenses 
for every 20,000 additional terminated participants: Provided 
further, That an additional $50,000 shall be made available 
through September 30, 2011, for obligation for investment 
management fees for every $25,000,000 in assets received by the 
Corporation as a result of new plan terminations or asset 
growth, after approval by the Office of Management and Budget 
and notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That 
obligations in excess of the amounts provided in this paragraph 
may be incurred for unforeseen and extraordinary pretermination 
expenses after approval by the Office of Management and Budget 
and notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate.

                  Employment Standards Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

              (including rescission and transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards 
Administration, including reimbursement to State, Federal, and 
local agencies and their employees for inspection services 
rendered, $491,382,000, together with $2,124,000 which may be 
expended from the Special Fund in accordance with sections 
39(c), 44(d), and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized to establish and, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
collect and deposit in the Treasury fees for processing 
applications and issuing certificates under sections 11(d) and 
14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and for processing 
applications and issuing registrations under title I of the 
Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act: 
Provided further, That funds identified in the table contained 
in the statement of the managers on the conference report 
accompanying this Act for Program Direction and Support may be 
allocated among the agencies included in this account and may 
be transferred to any other account within the Department of 
Labor for such purposes.
    Of the unobligated funds collected pursuant to section 
286(v) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, $50,000,000 are 
rescinded as of September 30, 2010.

                            SPECIAL BENEFITS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses 
(except administrative expenses) accruing during the current or 
any prior fiscal year authorized by 5 U.S.C. 81; continuation 
of benefits as provided for under the heading ``Civilian War 
Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation Act, 
1947; the Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 
1944; sections 4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948; and 
50 percent of the additional compensation and benefits required 
by section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act, $187,000,000, together with such amounts as 
may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent year 
appropriation for the payment of compensation and other 
benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 of the current 
year: Provided, That amounts appropriated may be used under 5 
U.S.C. 8104, by the Secretary of Labor to reimburse an 
employer, who is not the employer at the time of injury, for 
portions of the salary of a re-employed, disabled beneficiary: 
Provided further, That balances of reimbursements unobligated 
on September 30, 2009, shall remain available until expended 
for the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses: 
Provided further, That in addition there shall be transferred 
to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from any 
other corporation or instrumentality required under 5 U.S.C. 
8147(c) to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost of 
administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be the 
cost of administration for employees of such fair share 
entities through September 30, 2010: Provided further, That of 
those funds transferred to this account from the fair share 
entities to pay the cost of administration of the Federal 
Employees' Compensation Act, $58,120,000 shall be made 
available to the Secretary as follows:
            (1) For enhancement and maintenance of automated 
        data processing systems and telecommunications systems, 
        $19,968,000;
            (2) For automated workload processing operations, 
        including document imaging, centralized mail intake, 
        and medical bill processing, $23,323,000;
            (3) For periodic roll management and medical 
        review, $14,829,000; and
            (4) The remaining funds shall be paid into the 
        Treasury as miscellaneous receipts:

Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any 
person filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 
5 U.S.C. 81, or the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation 
Act, provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying 
information (including Social Security account number) as such 
regulations may prescribe.

               SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR DISABLED COAL MINERS

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, 
$169,180,000, to remain available until expended.
    For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, 
benefit payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, for 
costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such amounts as may 
be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV for the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2011, $45,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

    ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS 
                           COMPENSATION FUND

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $51,900,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Labor may require that any person filing a claim for 
benefits under the Act provide as part of such claim, such 
identifying information (including Social Security account 
number) as may be prescribed.

                    BLACK LUNG DISABILITY TRUST FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In fiscal year 2010, such sums as may be necessary from the 
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund (``Fund''), to remain 
available until expended, for payment of all benefits 
authorized by section 9501(d)(1), (2), (4), and (7) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and interest on advances, as 
authorized by section 9501(c)(2) of that Act. In addition, the 
following amounts may be expended from the Fund for fiscal year 
2010 for expenses of operation and administration of the Black 
Lung Benefits program, as authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not 
to exceed $32,720,000 for transfer to the Employment Standards 
Administration ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed 
$25,091,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries 
and Expenses''; not to exceed $327,000 for transfer to 
Departmental Management, ``Office of Inspector General''; and 
not to exceed $356,000 for payments into miscellaneous receipts 
for the expenses of the Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration, $558,620,000, including not to exceed 
$104,393,000 which shall be the maximum amount available for 
grants to States under section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act (``Act''), which grants shall be no less than 50 
percent of the costs of State occupational safety and health 
programs required to be incurred under plans approved by the 
Secretary of Labor under section 18 of the Act; and, in 
addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration may retain up to $200,000 per 
fiscal year of training institute course tuition fees, 
otherwise authorized by law to be collected, and may utilize 
such sums for occupational safety and health training and 
education: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2010, to collect and retain fees for services 
provided to Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may 
utilize such sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 
U.S.C. 9a, to administer national and international laboratory 
recognition programs that ensure the safety of equipment and 
products used by workers in the workplace: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall 
be obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, administer, or 
enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Act 
which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a farming 
operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and 
employs 10 or fewer employees: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated under this paragraph shall be obligated or 
expended to administer or enforce any standard, rule, 
regulation, or order under the Act with respect to any employer 
of 10 or fewer employees who is included within a category 
having a Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART) 
occupational injury and illness rate, at the most precise 
industrial classification code for which such data are 
published, less than the national average rate as such rates 
are most recently published by the Secretary, acting through 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in accordance with section 24 
of the Act, except--
            (1) to provide, as authorized by the Act, 
        consultation, technical assistance, educational and 
        training services, and to conduct surveys and studies;
            (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in 
        response to an employee complaint, to issue a citation 
        for violations found during such inspection, and to 
        assess a penalty for violations which are not corrected 
        within a reasonable abatement period and for any 
        willful violations found;
            (3) to take any action authorized by the Act with 
        respect to imminent dangers;
            (4) to take any action authorized by the Act with 
        respect to health hazards;
            (5) to take any action authorized by the Act with 
        respect to a report of an employment accident which is 
        fatal to one or more employees or which results in 
        hospitalization of two or more employees, and to take 
        any action pursuant to such investigation authorized by 
        the Act; and
            (6) to take any action authorized by the Act with 
        respect to complaints of discrimination against 
        employees for exercising rights under the Act:

Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to 
any person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not 
maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer 
employees: Provided further, That $10,750,000 shall be 
available for Susan Harwood training grants.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $357,293,000, including purchase and bestowal 
of certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and 
first-aid work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
including up to $2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery 
activities, and $1,450,000 to continue the project with the 
United Mine Workers of America, for classroom and simulated 
rescue training for mine rescue teams; in addition, not to 
exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health 
and Safety Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of 
training materials, otherwise authorized by law to be 
collected, to be available for mine safety and health education 
and training activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302; and, 
in addition, the Mine Safety and Health Administration may 
retain up to $1,000,000 from fees collected for the approval 
and certification of equipment, materials, and explosives for 
use in mines, and may utilize such sums for such activities; 
the Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept lands, 
buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public and 
private sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with 
other agencies, Federal, State, or private; the Mine Safety and 
Health Administration is authorized to promote health and 
safety education and training in the mining community through 
cooperative programs with States, industry, and safety 
associations; the Secretary is authorized to recognize the 
Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association as a principal safety 
association and, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
may provide funds and, with or without reimbursement, 
personnel, including service of Mine Safety and Health 
Administration officials as officers in local chapters or in 
the national organization; and any funds available to the 
Department of Labor may be used, with the approval of the 
Secretary, to provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival 
operations in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and 
local agencies and their employees for services rendered, 
$533,183,000, together with not to exceed $78,264,000, which 
may be expended from the Employment Security Administration 
Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund, of which $1,500,000 may 
be used to fund the mass layoff statistics program under 
section 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act: Provided, That the Current 
Employment Survey shall maintain the content of the survey 
issued prior to June 2005 with respect to the collection of 
data for the women worker series.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Disability 
Employment Policy to provide leadership, develop policy and 
initiatives, and award grants furthering the objective of 
eliminating barriers to the training and employment of people 
with disabilities, $39,031,000.

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, 
including the hire of three sedans, $354,827,000, together with 
not to exceed $327,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment 
Trust Fund: Provided, That $66,500,000 for the Bureau of 
International Labor Affairs shall be available for obligation 
through December 31, 2010: Provided further, That funds 
available to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs may be 
used to administer or operate international labor activities, 
bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, and 
microfinance programs, by or through contracts, grants, 
subgrants and other arrangements: Provided further, That 
$40,000,000 shall be for the United States' contribution to the 
International Labour Organization's International Program on 
the Elimination of Child Labor: Provided further, That not less 
than $6,500,000 shall be used to implement model programs that 
address worker rights issues through technical assistance in 
countries with which the United States has trade preference 
programs: Provided further, That funds available for the 
acquisition of Departmental information technology, 
architecture, infrastructure, equipment, software and related 
needs, may be allocated to agencies of the Department by the 
Department's Chief Information Officer: Provided further, That 
funds available for program evaluation may be transferred to 
any other appropriate account in the Department for such 
purpose.

                          OFFICE OF JOB CORPS

    To carry out subtitle C of title I of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998, including Federal administrative 
expenses, the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
the construction, alteration and repairs of buildings and other 
facilities, and the purchase of real property for training 
centers as authorized by the Workforce Investment Act; 
$1,708,205,000, plus reimbursements, as follows:
            (1) $1,574,015,000 for Job Corps Operations, of 
        which $983,015,000 shall be available for obligation 
        for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011 and 
        of which $591,000,000 shall be available for obligation 
        for the period October 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011;
            (2) $105,000,000 for construction, rehabilitation 
        and acquisition of Job Corps Centers, of which 
        $5,000,000 shall be available for the period July 1, 
        2010 through June 30, 2013 and $100,000,000 shall be 
        available for the period October 1, 2010 through June 
        30, 2013; and
            (3) $29,190,000 for necessary expenses of the 
        Office of Job Corps shall be available for obligation 
        for the period October 1, 2009 through September 30, 
        2010:

Provided, That the Office of Job Corps shall have contracting 
authority: Provided further, That no funds from any other 
appropriation shall be used to provide meal services at or for 
Job Corps centers.

                    VETERANS EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING

    Not to exceed $210,156,000 may be derived from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment 
Trust Fund to carry out the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4100-4113, 
4211-4215, and 4321-4327, and Public Law 103-353, and which 
shall be available for obligation by the States through 
December 31, 2010, of which $2,449,000 is for the National 
Veterans' Employment and Training Services Institute.
    In addition, to carry out Department of Labor programs 
under section 5(a)(1) of the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive 
Assistance Act of 2001 and the Veterans Workforce Investment 
Programs under section 168 of the Workforce Investment Act, 
$45,971,000, of which $9,641,000 shall be available for 
obligation for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $78,093,000, together with not to exceed 
$5,921,000, which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
the Job Corps shall be used to pay the salary of an individual, 
either as direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at 
a rate in excess of Executive Level I.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985) which are appropriated for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Labor in this Act may be 
transferred between a program, project, or activity, but no 
such program, project, or activity shall be increased by more 
than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the 
transfer authority granted by this section shall be available 
only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used to create 
any new program or to fund any project or activity for which no 
funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any 
transfer.
    Sec. 103.  In accordance with Executive Order No. 13126, 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended for the 
procurement of goods mined, produced, manufactured, or 
harvested or services rendered, whole or in part, by forced or 
indentured child labor in industries and host countries already 
identified by the United States Department of Labor prior to 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds appropriated in this title for 
grants under section 171 of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 may be obligated prior to the preparation and submission 
of a report by the Secretary of Labor to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Labor for grants under section 414(c) of the 
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 
may be used for any purpose other than training in the 
occupations and industries for which employers are using H-1B 
visas to hire foreign workers, and the related activities 
necessary to support such training: Provided, That the 
preceding limitation shall not apply to multi-year grants 
awarded prior to June 30, 2007.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds available in this Act or 
available to the Secretary of Labor from other sources for 
grants under the Career Pathways Innovation Fund and grants 
authorized under section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness 
and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 shall be obligated for a 
grant awarded on a non-competitive basis.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act under 
the heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' shall be 
used by a recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the 
salary and bonuses of an individual, either as direct costs or 
indirect costs, at a rate in excess of Executive Level II. This 
limitation shall not apply to vendors providing goods and 
services as defined in Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-133. Where States are recipients of such funds, States may 
establish a lower limit for salaries and bonuses of those 
receiving salaries and bonuses from subrecipients of such 
funds, taking into account factors including the relative cost-
of-living in the State, the compensation levels for comparable 
State or local government employees, and the size of the 
organizations that administer Federal programs involved 
including Employment and Training Administration programs.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 108.  The Secretary of Labor shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate a plan for the transfer of the administration of 
the Job Corps program authorized under title I-C of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 from the Office of the 
Secretary to the Employment and Training Administration. As of 
the date that is 30 days after the date of submission of such 
plan, the Secretary may transfer the administration and 
appropriated funds of the program from the Office of the 
Secretary and the provisions of section 102 of Public Law 109-
149 shall no longer be applicable.
    Sec. 109.  The Secretary of Labor shall take no action to 
amend, through regulatory or administration action, the 
definition established in section 667.220 of title 20 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations for functions and activities under 
title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, or to modify, 
through regulatory or administrative action, the procedure for 
redesignation of local areas as specified in subtitle B of 
title I of that Act (including applying the standards specified 
in section 116(a)(3)(B) of that Act, but notwithstanding the 
time limits specified in section 116(a)(3)(B) of that Act), 
until such time as legislation reauthorizing the Act is 
enacted. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall permit or 
require the Secretary to withdraw approval for such 
redesignation from a State that received the approval not later 
than October 12, 2005, or to revise action taken or modify the 
redesignation procedure being used by the Secretary in order to 
complete such redesignation for a State that initiated the 
process of such redesignation by submitting any request for 
such redesignation not later than October 26, 2005.
     This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                     HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES

    For carrying out titles II, III, IV, VII, VIII, X, XI, XII, 
XIX, and XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS Act''), 
section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, 
title V and sections 711, 1128E, and 1820 of the Social 
Security Act, the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 
the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, the Cardiac Arrest 
Survival Act of 2000, section 712 of the American Jobs Creation 
Act of 2004, and the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 
2005, $7,473,522,000, of which $41,200,000 from general 
revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social 
Security Act, shall be available for carrying out the Medicare 
rural hospital flexibility grants program under such section: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$1,000,000 shall be to carry out section 1820(g)(6) of the 
Social Security Act: Provided further, That amounts provided 
for such grants shall be available for the purchase and 
implementation of telehealth services, including pilots and 
demonstrations on the use of electronic health records to 
coordinate rural veterans care between rural providers and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs through the use of the VISTA-
Electronic Health Record: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $129,000 shall be available 
until expended for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long 
Hansen's Disease Center: Provided further, That in addition to 
fees authorized by section 427(b) of the Health Care Quality 
Improvement Act of 1986, fees shall be collected for the full 
disclosure of information under the Act sufficient to recover 
the full costs of operating the National Practitioner Data 
Bank, and shall remain available until expended to carry out 
that Act: Provided further, That fees collected for the full 
disclosure of information under the ``Health Care Fraud and 
Abuse Data Collection Program'', authorized by section 
1128E(d)(2) of the Social Security Act, shall be sufficient to 
recover the full costs of operating the program, and shall 
remain available until expended to carry out that Act: Provided 
further, That no more than $40,000 shall be available until 
expended for carrying out the provisions of section 224(o) of 
the PHS Act including associated administrative expenses and 
relevant evaluations: Provided further, That no more than 
$44,055,000 shall be available until expended for carrying out 
the provisions of Public Law 104-73 and for expenses incurred 
by the Department of Health and Human Services (``HHS'') 
pertaining to administrative claims made under such law: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $317,491,000 shall be for the program under title X of 
the PHS Act to provide for voluntary family planning projects: 
Provided further, That amounts provided to said projects under 
such title shall not be expended for abortions, that all 
pregnancy counseling shall be nondirective, and that such 
amounts shall not be expended for any activity (including the 
publication or distribution of literature) that in any way 
tends to promote public support or opposition to any 
legislative proposal or candidate for public office: Provided 
further, That of the funds available under this heading, 
$1,932,865,000 shall remain available to the Secretary of HHS 
through September 30, 2012, for parts A and B of title XXVI of 
the PHS Act: Provided further, That within the amounts provided 
for part A of title XXVI of the PHS Act, $6,021,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary through September 30, 2012, and 
shall be available to qualifying jurisdictions, within 30 days 
of enactment, for increasing supplemental grants for fiscal 
year 2010 to metropolitan and transitional areas that received 
grant funding in fiscal year 2009 under subparts I and II of 
part A of title XXVI of the PHS Act to ensure that an area's 
total funding under subparts I and II of part A for fiscal year 
2009, together with the amount of this additional funding, is 
not less than 92.4 percent of the amount of such area's total 
funding under part A for fiscal year 2006: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 2603(c)(1) of the PHS Act, the 
additional funding to areas under the immediately preceding 
proviso, which may be used for costs incurred during fiscal 
year 2009, shall be available to the area for obligation from 
the date of the award through the end of the grant year for the 
award: Provided further, That $835,000,000 shall be for State 
AIDS Drug Assistance Programs authorized by section 2616 of the 
PHS Act: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
herein, $25,000,000 shall be available from amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out parts A, B, C, 
and D of title XXVI of the PHS Act to fund section 2691 Special 
Projects of National Significance: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 502(b)(1) of the Social 
Security Act, not to exceed $92,551,000 shall be available for 
carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act and 
$10,400,000 shall be available for projects described in 
paragraphs (A) through (F) of section 501(a)(3) of such Act: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 747(e)(2) of the 
PHS Act, not less than $29,025,000 shall be for family medicine 
programs, not less than $7,575,000 shall be for general 
dentistry programs, and not less than $7,575,000 shall be for 
pediatric dentistry programs including faculty loan repayments 
for service as a full-time faculty member in dentistry: 
Provided further, That dentistry faculty loan repayments shall 
be made using the same terms and conditions as the Nursing 
Faculty Loan Repayment program authorized under section 738 of 
the PHS Act unless otherwise authorized: Provided further, That 
of the funds provided, $10,000,000 shall be provided to the 
Denali Commission as a direct lump payment pursuant to Public 
Law 106-113: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$35,000,000 shall be provided for the Delta Health Initiative 
as authorized in section 219 of division G of Public Law 110-
161 and associated administrative expenses: Provided further, 
That funds provided under section 846 and subpart 3 of part D 
of title III of the PHS Act may be used to make prior year 
adjustments to awards made under these sections: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 340A(d)(3)(B) of the PHS 
Act, $5,000,000 shall be available for 3 year grant periods 
under the Patient Navigator Act: Provided further, That of the 
amount appropriated in this paragraph, $338,002,000 shall be 
used for the projects financing the construction and renovation 
(including equipment) of health care and other facilities and 
for other health-related activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the heading ``Health Resources and Services'' 
in the statement of the managers on the conference report 
accompanying this Act, and of which up to one percent of the 
amount for each project may be used for related agency 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 338J(k) of the PHS Act, $10,075,000 shall be available 
for State Offices of Rural Health: Provided further, That of 
the funds provided, $15,000,000 shall be available for the 
Small Rural Hospital Improvement Grant Program for quality 
improvement and adoption of health information technology: 
Provided further, That $75,000,000 shall be available for State 
Health Access Grants to expand access to affordable health care 
coverage for the uninsured populations in such States.

           HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    Such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of 
the program, as authorized by title VII of the Public Health 
Service Act (``PHS Act''). For administrative expenses to carry 
out the guaranteed loan program, including section 709 of the 
PHS Act, $2,847,000.

             VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM TRUST FUND

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program 
Trust Fund (``Trust Fund''), such sums as may be necessary for 
claims associated with vaccine-related injury or death with 
respect to vaccines administered after September 30, 1988, 
pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public Health 
Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $6,502,000 
shall be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                DISEASE CONTROL, RESEARCH, AND TRAINING

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, 
and XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS Act''), 
sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, 501, and 514 of the 
Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, section 13 of the 
Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, 
sections 20, 21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act of 1970, title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, 
and for expenses necessary to support activities related to 
countering potential biological, nuclear, radiological, and 
chemical threats to civilian populations; including purchase 
and insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries; 
and purchase, hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, 
$6,390,387,000, of which $69,150,000 shall remain available 
until expended for acquisition of real property, equipment, 
construction and renovation of facilities; of which 
$595,749,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
Strategic National Stockpile under section 319F-2 of the PHS 
Act; of which $20,620,000 shall be used for the projects, and 
in the amounts, specified under the heading ``Disease Control, 
Research, and Training'' in the statement of the managers on 
the conference report accompanying this Act; of which 
$118,979,000 for international HIV/AIDS shall remain available 
through September 30, 2011; and of which $70,723,000 shall be 
available until expended to provide screening and treatment for 
first response emergency services personnel, residents, 
students, and others related to the September 11, 2001 
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center: Provided, That in 
addition, such sums as may be derived from authorized user 
fees, which shall be credited to this account: Provided 
further, That with respect to the previous proviso, authorized 
user fees from the Vessel Sanitation Program shall be available 
through September 30, 2011: Provided further, That in addition 
to amounts provided herein, the following amounts shall be 
available from amounts available under section 241 of the PHS 
Act: (1) $12,864,000 to carry out the National Immunization 
Surveys; (2) $138,683,000 to carry out the National Center for 
Health Statistics surveys; (3) $30,880,000 for Public Health 
Informatics; (4) $47,036,000 for Health Marketing; (5) 
$31,170,000 to carry out Public Health Research; and (6) 
$91,724,000 to carry out research activities within the 
National Occupational Research Agenda: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available for injury prevention and 
control at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may 
be used, in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun 
control: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, up to $1,000 per eligible employee of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall be made 
available until expended for Individual Learning Accounts: 
Provided further, That the Director may redirect the total 
amount made available under authority of Public Law 101-502, 
section 3, dated November 3, 1990, to activities the Director 
may so designate: Provided further, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
are to be notified promptly of any such redirection: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $20,787,000 may be available for 
making grants under section 1509 of the PHS Act to not less 
than 21 States, tribes, or tribal organizations: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall award a single 
contract or related contracts for development and construction 
of the next building or facility designated in the Buildings 
and Facilities Master Plan that collectively include the full 
scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation 
and contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' 
found at 48 CFR 52.232-18: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated, $10,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: 
Provided further, That employees of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention or the Public Health Service, both 
civilian and Commissioned Officers, detailed to States, 
municipalities, or other organizations under authority of 
section 214 of the PHS Act, or in overseas assignments, shall 
be treated as non-Federal employees for reporting purposes only 
and shall not be included within any personnel ceiling 
applicable to the Agency, Service, or the Department of Health 
and Human Services during the period of detail or assignment.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to administer the 
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, 
$55,358,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$4,500,000 shall be for use by or in support of the Advisory 
Board on Radiation and Worker Health (``the Board'') to carry 
out its statutory responsibilities, including obtaining audits, 
technical assistance, and other support from the Board's audit 
contractor with regard to radiation dose estimation and 
reconstruction efforts, site profiles, procedures, and review 
of Special Exposure Cohort petitions and evaluation reports: 
Provided, That this amount shall be available consistent with 
the provision regarding administrative expenses in section 
151(b) of division B, title I of Public Law 106-554.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to cancer, $5,103,388,000, of 
which up to $8,000,000 may be used for facilities repairs and 
improvements at the National Cancer Institute-Frederick 
Federally Funded Research and Development Center in Frederick, 
Maryland.

               NATIONAL HEART, LUNG, AND BLOOD INSTITUTE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and 
blood diseases, and blood and blood products, $3,096,916,000.

         NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF DENTAL AND CRANIOFACIAL RESEARCH

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to dental disease, 
$413,236,000.

    NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF DIABETES AND DIGESTIVE AND KIDNEY DISEASES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and 
kidney disease, $1,808,100,000.

        NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS AND STROKE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and 
stroke, $1,636,371,000.

         NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious 
diseases, $4,818,275,000, of which $304,000,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds appropriated under the heading 
``Biodefense Countermeasures'' in the Department of Homeland 
Security Appropriations Act, 2004: Provided, That $300,000,000 
may be made available to International Assistance Programs 
``Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis'', 
to remain available until expended.

             NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF GENERAL MEDICAL SCIENCES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, 
$2,051,798,000.

  EUNICE KENNEDY SHRIVER NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH AND HUMAN 
                              DEVELOPMENT

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to child health and human 
development, $1,329,528,000.

                         NATIONAL EYE INSTITUTE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual 
disorders, $707,036,000.

          NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health 
sciences, $689,781,000.

                      NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to aging, $1,110,229,000.

 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ARTHRITIS AND MUSCULOSKELETAL AND SKIN DISEASES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to arthritis and 
musculoskeletal and skin diseases, $539,082,000.

    NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DEAFNESS AND OTHER COMMUNICATION DISORDERS

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to deafness and other 
communication disorders, $418,833,000.

                 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NURSING RESEARCH

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to nursing research, 
$145,660,000.

           NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON ALCOHOL ABUSE AND ALCOHOLISM

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse and 
alcoholism, $462,346,000.

                    NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $1,059,848,000.

                  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to mental health, 
$1,489,372,000.

                NATIONAL HUMAN GENOME RESEARCH INSTITUTE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to human genome research, 
$516,028,000.

      NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BIOMEDICAL IMAGING AND BIOENGINEERING

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to biomedical imaging and 
bioengineering research, $316,582,000.

                 NATIONAL CENTER FOR RESEARCH RESOURCES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to research resources and 
general research support grants, $1,268,896,000.

       NATIONAL CENTER FOR COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to complementary and 
alternative medicine, $128,844,000.

       NATIONAL CENTER ON MINORITY HEALTH AND HEALTH DISPARITIES

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to minority health and health 
disparities research, $211,572,000.

                  JOHN E. FOGARTY INTERNATIONAL CENTER

    For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of title 
IV of the Public Health Service Act), $70,051,000.

                      NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act (``PHS Act'') with respect to health 
information communications, $339,716,000, of which $4,000,000 
shall be available until expended for improvement of 
information systems: Provided, That in fiscal year 2010, the 
National Library of Medicine may enter into personal services 
contracts for the provision of services in facilities owned, 
operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of the National 
Institutes of Health: Provided further, That in addition to 
amounts provided herein, $8,200,000 shall be available from 
amounts available under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out 
the purposes of the National Information Center on Health 
Services Research and Health Care Technology established under 
section 478A of the PHS Act and related health services.

                         OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, National Institutes of Health (``NIH''), 
$1,177,300,000, of which up to $25,000,000 shall be used to 
carry out section 214 of this Act: Provided, That funding shall 
be available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, That the 
NIH is authorized to collect third party payments for the cost 
of clinical services that are incurred in NIH research 
facilities and that such payments shall be credited to the NIH 
Management Fund: Provided further, That all funds credited to 
such Fund shall remain available for one fiscal year after the 
fiscal year in which they are deposited: Provided further, That 
up to $193,880,000 shall be available for continuation of the 
National Children's Study: Provided further, That $544,109,000 
shall be available for the Common Fund established under 
section 402A(c)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS 
Act''): Provided further, That of the funds provided $10,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses 
when specifically approved by the Director of the NIH: Provided 
further, That the Office of AIDS Research within the Office of 
the Director of the NIH may spend up to $8,000,000 to make 
grants for construction or renovation of facilities as provided 
for in section 2354(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act.

                        BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

    For the study of, construction of, renovation of, and 
acquisition of equipment for, facilities of or used by the 
National Institutes of Health, including the acquisition of 
real property, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

               SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the Public 
Health Service Act (``PHS Act'') with respect to substance 
abuse and mental health services and the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act, 
$3,431,624,000, of which $14,518,000 shall be used for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services'' in the statement 
of the managers on the conference report accompanying this Act: 
Provided, That notwithstanding section 520A(f)(2) of the PHS 
Act, no funds appropriated for carrying out section 520A are 
available for carrying out section 1971 of the PHS Act: 
Provided further, That $795,000 shall be available until 
expended for reimbursing the General Services Administration 
for environmental testing and remediation on the federally 
owned facilities at St. Elizabeths Hospital, including but not 
limited to testing and remediation conducted prior to fiscal 
year 2010: Provided further, That in addition to amounts 
provided herein, the following amounts shall be available under 
section 241 of the PHS Act: (1) $79,200,000 to carry out 
subpart II of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund 
section 1935(b) technical assistance, national data, data 
collection and evaluation activities, and further that the 
total available under this Act for section 1935(b) activities 
shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts appropriated for 
subpart II of part B of title XIX; (2) $21,039,000 to carry out 
subpart I of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 
1920(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection 
and evaluation activities, and further that the total available 
under this Act for section 1920(b) activities shall not exceed 
5 percent of the amounts appropriated for subpart I of part B 
of title XIX; (3) $22,750,000 to carry out national surveys on 
drug abuse and mental health; and (4) $8,596,000 to collect and 
analyze data and evaluate substance abuse treatment programs: 
Provided further, That section 520E(b)(2) of the PHS Act shall 
not apply to funds appropriated under this Act for fiscal year 
2010.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health 
Service Act (``PHS Act''), part A of title XI of the Social 
Security Act, and section 1013 of the Medicare Prescription 
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, amounts 
received from Freedom of Information Act fees, reimbursable and 
interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be credited 
to this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the amount made available pursuant to 
section 937(c) of the PHS Act shall not exceed $397,053,000.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                     GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAID

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI 
and XIX of the Social Security Act, $220,962,473,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making, after May 31, 2010, payments to States under 
title XIX of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of 
fiscal year 2010 for unanticipated costs, incurred for the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 
1928 on behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, $86,789,382,000, 
to remain available until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with 
respect to a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such 
quarter, if submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved 
in that or any subsequent quarter.

                  PAYMENTS TO HEALTH CARE TRUST FUNDS

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund 
and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as 
provided under sections 217(g), 1844, and 1860D-16 of the 
Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) of the Social 
Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of Public Law 97-
248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to 
section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, $207,286,070,000.
    In addition, for making matching payments under section 
1844, and benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the Social 
Security Act, not anticipated in budget estimates, such sums as 
may be necessary.

                           PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, 
XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and 
XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS Act''), and the 
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, not to 
exceed $3,470,242,000, to be transferred from the Federal 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) 
of the Social Security Act; together with all funds collected 
in accordance with section 353 of the PHS Act and section 
1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act, funds retained by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 302 
of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006; and such sums as 
may be collected from authorized user fees and the sale of 
data, which shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended: Provided, That all funds derived in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations established 
under title XIII of the PHS Act shall be credited to and 
available for carrying out the purposes of this appropriation: 
Provided further, That $35,681,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2011, shall be for contract costs for the 
Healthcare Integrated General Ledger Accounting System: 
Provided further, That $65,600,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2011, shall be for the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services (``CMS'') Medicare contracting reform 
activities: Provided further, That $55,000,000 shall be 
available for the State high risk health insurance pool program 
as authorized by the State High Risk Pool Funding Extension Act 
of 2006: Provided further, That the Secretary is directed to 
collect fees in fiscal year 2010 from Medicare Advantage 
organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the Social 
Security Act and from eligible organizations with risk-sharing 
contracts under section 1876 of that Act pursuant to section 
1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act: Provided further, That $3,100,000 
shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under the heading ``Program Management'' in the statement of 
the managers on the conference report accompanying this Act.

              Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control Account

    In addition to amounts otherwise available for program 
integrity and program management, $311,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2011, to be transferred from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as authorized by 
section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, of which 
$220,320,000 shall be for the Medicare Integrity Program at the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, including 
administrative costs, to conduct oversight activities for 
Medicare Advantage and the Medicare Prescription Drug Program 
authorized in title XVIII of the Social Security Act and for 
activities listed in section 1893 of such Act; of which 
$29,790,000 shall be for the Department of Health and Human 
Services Office of Inspector General to carry out fraud and 
abuse activities authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such Act; 
of which $31,100,000 shall be for the Medicaid and Children's 
Health Insurance Program (``CHIP'') program integrity 
activities; and of which $29,790,000 shall be for the 
Department of Justice to carry out fraud and abuse activities 
authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such Act: Provided, That 
the report required by section 1817(k)(5) of the Social 
Security Act for fiscal year 2010 shall include measures of the 
operational efficiency and impact on fraud, waste, and abuse in 
the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs for the funds 
provided by this appropriation.

                Administration for Children and Families

  PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT AND FAMILY SUPPORT 
                                PROGRAMS

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities 
under titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social 
Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960, $3,571,509,000, to 
remain available until expended; and for such purposes for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2011, $1,100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making payments to each State for carrying out the 
program of Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title 
IV-A of the Social Security Act before the effective date of 
the program of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families with 
respect to such State, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, 
That the sum of the amounts available to a State with respect 
to expenditures under such title IV-A in fiscal year 1997 under 
this appropriation and under such title IV-A as amended by the 
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
of 1996 shall not exceed the limitations under section 116(b) 
of such Act.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, 
payments to States or other non-Federal entities under titles 
I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
Act of July 5, 1960, for the last 3 months of the current 
fiscal year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the current 
fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                   LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE

    For making payments under subsections (b), (d), and (e) of 
section 2602 of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 
1981, $5,100,000,000, of which $4,509,672,000 shall be for 
payments under subsections (b) and (d) of such section; and of 
which $590,328,000 shall be for payments under subsection (e) 
of such section, to be made notwithstanding the designation 
requirements of such subsection: Provided, That all but 
$839,792,000 of the amount provided in this Act for subsections 
(b) and (d) shall be allocated as though the total 
appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 2010 was less 
than $1,975,000,000: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 2605(b)(2)(B)(ii) of such Act, a State may use any 
amount of an allotment from prior appropriations Acts that is 
available to that State for providing assistance in fiscal year 
2010, and any allotment from funds appropriated in this Act or 
any other appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, to provide 
assistance to households whose income does not exceed 75 
percent of the State median income.

                     REFUGEE AND ENTRANT ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
activities authorized by section 414 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, for carrying out section 462 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002, section 235 of the William 
Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act 
of 2008, and the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, 
for costs associated with the care and placement of 
unaccompanied alien children, and for carrying out the Torture 
Victims Relief Act of 1998, $730,928,000, of which up to 
$9,814,000 shall be available to carry out the Trafficking 
Victims Protection Act of 2000: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading pursuant to section 414(a) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, section 462 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002, section 235 of the William 
Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act 
of 2008, and the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 for 
fiscal year 2010 shall be available for the costs of assistance 
provided and other activities to remain available through 
September 30, 2012.

   PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR THE CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT

    For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant 
Act of 1990, $2,127,081,000 shall be used to supplement, not 
supplant State general revenue funds for child care assistance 
for low-income families: Provided, That $18,960,000 shall be 
available for child care resource and referral and school-aged 
child care activities, of which $1,000,000 shall be for the 
Child Care Aware toll-free hotline: Provided further, That, in 
addition to the amounts required to be reserved by the States 
under section 658G, $271,401,000 shall be reserved by the 
States for activities authorized under section 658G, of which 
$99,534,000 shall be for activities that improve the quality of 
infant and toddler care: Provided further, That $9,910,000 
shall be for use by the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
for child care research, demonstration, and evaluation 
activities.

                      SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the 
Social Security Act, $1,700,000,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such 
Act, the applicable percent specified under such subparagraph 
for a State to carry out State programs pursuant to title XX of 
such Act shall be 10 percent.

                CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway 
and Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities 
Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, the Head Start Act, the 
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, sections 310 and 316 
of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, the Native 
American Programs Act of 1974, title II of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 1978 
(adoption opportunities), sections 330F and 330G of the Public 
Health Service Act (``PHS Act''), the Abandoned Infants 
Assistance Act of 1988, sections 261 and 291 of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002, part B-1 of title IV and sections 
413, 1110, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; for making 
payments under the Community Services Block Grant Act (``CSBG 
Act''), sections 439(i), 473B, and 477(i) of the Social 
Security Act, and the Assets for Independence Act; and for 
necessary administrative expenses to carry out such Acts and 
titles I, IV, V, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XX of the Social Security 
Act, the Act of July 5, 1960, the Low Income Home Energy 
Assistance Act of 1981, title IV of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, section 501 of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, and section 505 of the Family Support 
Act of 1988, $9,314,532,000, of which $39,500,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2011, shall be for grants to 
States for adoption incentive payments, as authorized by 
section 473A of the Social Security Act and may be made for 
adoptions completed before September 30, 2010: Provided, That 
$7,234,783,000 shall be for making payments under the Head 
Start Act: Provided further, That of funds appropriated in the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 for Head Start 
and Early Head Start, only the amount provided to a Head Start 
grantee under section 640(a)(3)(A)(i)(I) of the Head Start Act 
as a cost of living adjustment may be considered to be part of 
the fiscal year 2009 base grant for such grantee for purposes 
of section 640(a)(2)(B)(i) through (v) of the Head Start Act: 
Provided further, That $746,000,000 shall be for making 
payments under the CSBG Act: Provided further, That not less 
than $10,000,000 shall be for section 680(a)(3)(B) of the CSBG 
Act: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
herein, $5,762,000 shall be available from amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out the provisions of 
section 1110 of the Social Security Act: Provided further, That 
to the extent Community Services Block Grant funds are 
distributed as grant funds by a State to an eligible entity as 
provided under the CSBG Act, and have not been expended by such 
entity, they shall remain with such entity for carryover into 
the next fiscal year for expenditure by such entity consistent 
with program purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall establish procedures regarding 
the disposition of intangible assets and program income that 
permit such assets acquired with, and program income derived 
from, grant funds authorized under section 680 of the CSBG Act 
to become the sole property of such grantees after a period of 
not more than 12 years after the end of the grant period for 
any activity consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) of the CSBG 
Act: Provided further, That intangible assets in the form of 
loans, equity investments and other debt instruments, and 
program income may be used by grantees for any eligible purpose 
consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) of the CSBG Act: Provided 
further, That these procedures shall apply to such grant funds 
made available after November 29, 1999: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated for section 680(a)(2) of the CSBG Act shall 
be available for financing construction and rehabilitation and 
loans or investments in private business enterprises owned by 
community development corporations: Provided further, That 
$17,410,000 shall be for activities authorized by the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002, of which $12,154,000 shall be for 
payments to States to promote access for voters with 
disabilities, and of which $5,256,000 shall be for payments to 
States for protection and advocacy systems for voters with 
disabilities: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be for a 
human services case management system for federally declared 
disasters, to include a comprehensive national case management 
contract and Federal costs of administering the system: 
Provided further, That up to $2,000,000 shall be for improving 
the Public Assistance Reporting Information System, including 
grants to States to support data collection for a study of the 
system's effectiveness: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $1,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the National Commission on Children and 
Disasters to carry out title VI of division G of Public Law 
110-161: Provided further, That $20,785,000 shall be used for 
the projects, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Children and Families Services Programs'' in the statement of 
the managers on the conference report accompanying this Act.

                   PROMOTING SAFE AND STABLE FAMILIES

    For carrying out section 436 of the Social Security Act, 
$345,000,000 and section 437 of such Act, $63,311,000.

                PAYMENTS FOR FOSTER CARE AND PERMANENCY

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities 
under title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $5,532,000,000.
    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities 
under title IV-E of the Social Security Act, for the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2011, $1,850,000,000.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, 
payments to States or other non-Federal entities under section 
474 of title IV-E of the Social Security Act, for the last 3 
months of the current fiscal year for unanticipated costs, 
incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                        Administration on Aging

                        AGING SERVICES PROGRAMS

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Older Americans Act of 1965, section 398 and title XXIX of the 
Public Health Service Act, and section 119 of the Medicare 
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, 
$1,516,297,000, of which $5,500,000 shall be available for 
activities regarding medication management, screening, and 
education to prevent incorrect medication and adverse drug 
reactions: Provided, That $5,974,000 shall be used for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Aging Services Programs'' in the statement of the managers on 
the conference report accompanying this Act.

                        Office of the Secretary

                    GENERAL DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six sedans, and for 
carrying out titles III, IV, XVII, XX, and XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act (``PHS Act''), the United States-Mexico 
Border Health Commission Act, and research studies under 
section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $493,377,000, together 
with $5,851,000 to be transferred and expended as authorized by 
section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from the Federal 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, and $65,211,000 from the amounts 
available under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out 
national health or human services research and evaluation 
activities: Provided, That of this amount, $53,891,000 shall be 
for minority AIDS prevention and treatment activities; 
$5,789,000 shall be to assist Afghanistan in the development of 
maternal and child health clinics, consistent with section 
103(a)(4)(H) of the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002; 
and $1,000,000 shall be transferred, not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act, to the National Institute of 
Mental Health to administer the Interagency Autism Coordinating 
Committee: Provided further, That all of the funds made 
available under this heading for carrying out title XX of the 
PHS Act shall be for activities specified under section 
2003(b)(1) of such title XX: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $110,000,000 shall be 
for making competitive contracts and grants to public and 
private entities to fund medically accurate and age appropriate 
programs that reduce teen pregnancy and for the Federal costs 
associated with administering and evaluating such contracts and 
grants, of which not less than $75,000,000 shall be for 
replicating programs that have been proven effective through 
rigorous evaluation to reduce teenage pregnancy, behavioral 
risk factors underlying teenage pregnancy, or other associated 
risk factors, of which not less than $25,000,000 shall be 
available for research and demonstration grants to develop, 
replicate, refine, and test additional models and innovative 
strategies for preventing teenage pregnancy, and of which any 
remaining amounts shall be available for training and technical 
assistance, evaluation, outreach, and additional program 
support activities: Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading from amounts available under 
section 241 of the PHS Act, $4,455,000 shall be available to 
carry out evaluations (including longitudinal evaluations) of 
teenage pregnancy prevention approaches: Provided further, That 
funds provided in this Act for embryo adoption activities may 
be used to provide, to individuals adopting embryos, through 
grants and other mechanisms, medical and administrative 
services deemed necessary for such adoptions: Provided further, 
That such services shall be provided consistent with 42 CFR 
59.5(a)(4): Provided further, That $1,650,000 shall be used for 
the projects, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``General Departmental Management'' in the statement of the 
managers on the conference report accompanying this Act.

                OFFICE OF MEDICARE HEARINGS AND APPEALS

    For expenses necessary for administrative law judges 
responsible for hearing cases under title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act (and related provisions of title XI of such Act), 
$71,147,000, to be transferred in appropriate part from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL COORDINATOR FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the National 
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, including 
grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements for the 
development and advancement of interoperable health information 
technology, $42,331,000: Provided, That in addition to amounts 
provided herein, $19,011,000 shall be available from amounts 
available under section 241 of the Public Health Service Act.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for 
investigations, in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978, $50,279,000: Provided, That of such 
amount, necessary sums shall be available for providing 
protective services to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services and investigating non-payment of child support cases 
for which non-payment is a Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. 228: 
Provided further, That at least forty percent of the funds 
provided in this Act for the Office of Inspector General shall 
be used only for investigations, audits, and evaluations 
pertaining to the discretionary programs funded in this Act.

                        OFFICE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$37,785,000, together with not to exceed $3,314,000 to be 
transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of 
the Social Security Act from the Federal Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund.

     RETIREMENT PAY AND MEDICAL BENEFITS FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health 
Service Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan 
and Survivor Benefit Plan, and for medical care of dependents 
and retired personnel under the Dependents' Medical Care Act, 
such amounts as may be required during the current fiscal year.

            PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES EMERGENCY FUND

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to 
countering potential biological, nuclear, radiological, 
chemical, and cybersecurity threats to civilian populations, 
and for other public health emergencies and to pay the costs 
described in section 319F-2(c)(7)(B) of the Public Health 
Service Act (``PHS Act''), $617,942,000; of which $33,065,000 
shall be to support preparedness and emergency operations, of 
which $5,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 
2011; and of which $10,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2011, shall be to support the delivery of medical 
countermeasures: Provided, That of the amount made available 
herein for the delivery of medical countermeasures, up to 
$8,000,000 may be transferred to the U.S. Postal Service to 
support delivery of medical countermeasures.
    For expenses necessary to support advanced research and 
development pursuant to section 319L of the PHS Act, 
$305,000,000, to be derived by transfer from funds appropriated 
under the heading ``Biodefense Countermeasures'' in the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2004, to 
remain available through September 30, 2011.
    For expenses necessary to prepare for and respond to an 
influenza pandemic, $354,167,000, of which $276,000,000 shall 
be available until expended, for activities including the 
development and purchase of vaccine, antivirals, necessary 
medical supplies, diagnostics, and other surveillance tools: 
Provided, That products purchased with these funds may, at the 
discretion of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, be 
deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile under section 
319F-2(a) of the PHS Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 496(b) of the PHS Act, funds may be 
used for the construction or renovation of privately owned 
facilities for the production of pandemic influenza vaccines 
and other biologics, if the Secretary finds such construction 
or renovation necessary to secure sufficient supplies of such 
vaccines or biologics: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated herein may be transferred to other appropriation 
accounts of the Department of Health and Human Services, as 
determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, to be used for 
the purposes specified in this paragraph.
    All remaining balances from funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Biodefense Countermeasures'' in the Department of 
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2004, shall be 
transferred to this account, and shall remain available for 
obligation through September 30, 2013, for the procurement of 
medical countermeasures pursuant to section 319F-2(c) of the 
PHS Act: Provided, That products purchased with these funds 
shall be deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile under 
section 319F-2(a) of the PHS Act.
    For expenses necessary for fit-out and other costs related 
to a competitive lease procurement to renovate or replace the 
existing headquarters building for Public Health Service 
agencies and other components of the Department of Health and 
Human Services, $69,585,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be 
available for not to exceed $50,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    Sec. 202.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
make available through assignment not more than 60 employees of 
the Public Health Service to assist in child survival 
activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the 
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the 
World Health Organization.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
the National Institutes of Health, the Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality, and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an 
individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a 
rate in excess of Executive Level I.
    Sec. 204.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
be expended pursuant to section 241 of the Public Health 
Service Act, except for funds specifically provided for in this 
Act, or for other taps and assessments made by any office 
located in the Department of Health and Human Services, prior 
to the preparation and submission of a report by the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 205.  Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the Public 
Health Service Act, such portion as the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall determine, but not more than 2.5 percent, 
of any amounts appropriated for programs authorized under such 
Act shall be made available for the evaluation (directly, or by 
grants or contracts) of the implementation and effectiveness of 
such programs.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 206.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985) which are appropriated for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Health and Human Services in 
this Act may be transferred between a program, project, or 
activity, but no such program, project, or activity shall be 
increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer: 
Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
shall be available only to meet emergency needs and shall not 
be used to create any new program or to fund any project or 
activity for which no funds are provided in this Act: Provided 
further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in 
advance of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 207.  The Director of the National Institutes of 
Health, jointly with the Director of the Office of AIDS 
Research, may transfer up to 3 percent among institutes and 
centers from the total amounts identified by these two 
Directors as funding for research pertaining to the human 
immunodeficiency virus: Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Of the amounts made available in this Act for 
the National Institutes of Health, the amount for research 
related to the human immunodeficiency virus, as jointly 
determined by the Director of the National Institutes of Health 
and the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, shall be made 
available to the ``Office of AIDS Research Office'' account. 
The Director of the Office of AIDS Research shall transfer from 
such account amounts necessary to carry out section 2353(d)(3) 
of the Public Health Service Act.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
be made available to any entity under title X of the Public 
Health Service Act unless the applicant for the award certifies 
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that it 
encourages family participation in the decision of minors to 
seek family planning services and that it provides counseling 
to minors on how to resist attempts to coerce minors into 
engaging in sexual activities.
    Sec. 210.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
provider of services under title X of the Public Health Service 
Act shall be exempt from any State law requiring notification 
or the reporting of child abuse, child molestation, sexual 
abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
(including funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to 
carry out the Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services denies participation in such program 
to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider Sponsored 
Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that it 
will not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide 
referrals for abortions: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
make appropriate prospective adjustments to the capitation 
payment to such an entity (based on an actuarially sound 
estimate of the expected costs of providing the service to such 
entity's enrollees): Provided further, That nothing in this 
section shall be construed to change the Medicare program's 
coverage for such services and a Medicare Advantage 
organization described in this section shall be responsible for 
informing enrollees where to obtain information about all 
Medicare covered services.
    Sec. 212. (a) Except as provided by subsection (e) none of 
the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2010 or any subsequent 
fiscal year by this or any subsequent appropriations Act may be 
used to withhold substance abuse funding from a State pursuant 
to section 1926 of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS Act'') 
if such State certifies to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services by May 1 of the fiscal year for which the funds are 
appropriated, that the State will commit additional State 
funds, in accordance with subsection (b), to ensure compliance 
with State laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to 
individuals under 18 years of age.
    (b) The amount of funds to be committed by a State under 
subsection (a) shall be equal to 1 percent of such State's 
substance abuse block grant allocation for each percentage 
point by which the State misses the retailer compliance rate 
goal established by the Secretary under section 1926 of such 
Act.
    (c) The State is to maintain State expenditures in such 
fiscal year for tobacco prevention programs and for compliance 
activities at a level that is not less than the level of such 
expenditures maintained by the State for the preceding fiscal 
year, and adding to that level the additional funds for tobacco 
compliance activities required under subsection (a). The State 
is to submit a report to the Secretary on all State obligations 
of funds for such fiscal year and all State expenditures for 
the preceding fiscal year for tobacco prevention and compliance 
activities by program activity by July 31 of such fiscal year.
    (d) The Secretary shall exercise discretion in enforcing 
the timing of the State obligation of the additional funds 
required by the certification described in subsection (a) as 
late as July 31 of such fiscal year.
    (e) None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
subsequent appropriations Act may be used to withhold substance 
abuse funding pursuant to section 1926 of the PHS Act from a 
territory that receives less than $1,000,000.
    Sec. 213.  In order for the Department of Health and Human 
Services to carry out international health activities, 
including HIV/AIDS and other infectious disease, chronic and 
environmental disease, and other health activities abroad 
during fiscal year 2010:
            (1) The Secretary of Health and Human Services may 
        exercise authority equivalent to that available to the 
        Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the State 
        Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956. The Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services shall consult with the 
        Secretary of State and relevant Chief of Mission to 
        ensure that the authority provided in this section is 
        exercised in a manner consistent with section 207 of 
        the Foreign Service Act of 1980 and other applicable 
        statutes administered by the Department of State.
            (2) The Secretary of Health and Human Services is 
        authorized to provide such funds by advance or 
        reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
        necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, 
        alteration, renovation, and management of facilities 
        outside of the United States for the use of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services. The Department 
        of State shall cooperate fully with the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services to ensure that the Department 
        of Health and Human Services has secure, safe, 
        functional facilities that comply with applicable 
        regulation governing location, setback, and other 
        facilities requirements and serve the purposes 
        established by this Act. The Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services is authorized, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of State, through grant or cooperative 
        agreement, to make available to public or nonprofit 
        private institutions or agencies in participating 
        foreign countries, funds to acquire, lease, alter, or 
        renovate facilities in those countries as necessary to 
        conduct programs of assistance for international health 
        activities, including activities relating to HIV/AIDS 
        and other infectious diseases, chronic and 
        environmental diseases, and other health activities 
        abroad.
            (3) The Secretary of Health and Human Services is 
        authorized to provide to personnel appointed or 
        assigned by the Secretary to serve abroad, allowances 
        and benefits similar to those provided under chapter 9 
        of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and 22 
        U.S.C. 4081 through 4086 and subject to such 
        regulations prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary 
        is further authorized to provide locality-based 
        comparability payments (stated as a percentage) up to 
        the amount of the locality-based comparability payment 
        (stated as a percentage) that would be payable to such 
        personnel under section 5304 of title 5, United States 
        Code if such personnel's official duty station were in 
        the District of Columbia. Leaves of absence for 
        personnel under this subsection shall be on the same 
        basis as that provided under subchapter I of chapter 63 
        of title 5, United States Code, or section 903 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980, to individuals serving in 
        the Foreign Service.
    Sec. 214. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Director of the National Institutes of 
Health (``Director'') may use funds available under section 
402(b)(7) or 402(b)(12) of the Public Health Service Act (``PHS 
Act'') to enter into transactions (other than contracts, 
cooperative agreements, or grants) to carry out research 
identified pursuant to such section 402(b)(7) (pertaining to 
the Common Fund) or research and activities described in such 
section 402(b)(12).
    (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under 
subsection (a), the Director may utilize such peer review 
procedures (including consultation with appropriate scientific 
experts) as the Director determines to be appropriate to obtain 
assessments of scientific and technical merit. Such procedures 
shall apply to such transactions in lieu of the peer review and 
advisory council review procedures that would otherwise be 
required under sections 301(a)(3), 405(b)(1)(B), 405(b)(2), 
406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 494 of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 215.  Funds which are available for Individual 
Learning Accounts for employees of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (``CDC'') and the Agency for Toxic 
Substances and Disease Registry (``ATSDR'') may be transferred 
to ``Disease Control, Research, and Training'', to be available 
only for Individual Learning Accounts: Provided, That such 
funds may be used for any individual full-time equivalent 
employee while such employee is employed either by CDC or 
ATSDR.
    Sec. 216.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, 
funds made available in this Act may be used to continue 
operating the Council on Graduate Medical Education established 
by section 301 of Public Law 102-408.
    Sec. 217.  Not to exceed $35,000,000  of funds appropriated 
by this Act to the institutes and centers of the National 
Institutes of Health may be used for alteration, repair, or 
improvement of facilities, as necessary for the proper and 
efficient conduct of the activities authorized herein, at not 
to exceed $2,500,000 per project.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Of the amounts made available for the National 
Institutes of Health, 1 percent of the amount made available 
for National Research Service Awards (``NRSA'') shall be made 
available to the Administrator of the Health Resources and 
Services Administration to make NRSA awards for research in 
primary medical care to individuals affiliated with entities 
who have received grants or contracts under section 747 of the 
Public Health Service Act, and 1 percent of the amount made 
available for NRSA shall be made available to the Director of 
the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to make NRSA 
awards for health service research.
    Sec. 219.  By May 1, 2010, the Secretary of the Department 
of Health and Human Services shall amend regulations at 42 CFR 
Part 50 Subpart F for the purpose of strengthening Federal and 
institutional oversight and identifying enhancements, including 
requirements for financial disclosure to institutions, 
governing financial conflicts of interest among extramural 
investigators receiving grant support from the National 
Institutes of Health.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and 
Human Services Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') and section 418A of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, $15,914,666,000, of which $4,954,510,000 
shall become available on July 1, 2010, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2011, and of which 
$10,841,176,000 shall become available on October 1, 2010, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2011, for academic 
year 2010-2011: Provided, That $6,597,946,000 shall be for 
basic grants under section 1124 of the ESEA: Provided further, 
That up to $4,000,000 of these funds shall be available to the 
Secretary of Education on October 1, 2009, to obtain annually 
updated local educational-agency-level census poverty data from 
the Bureau of the Census: Provided further, That $1,365,031,000 
shall be for concentration grants under section 1124A of the 
ESEA: Provided further, That $3,264,712,000 shall be for 
targeted grants under section 1125 of the ESEA: Provided 
further, That $3,264,712,000 shall be for education finance 
incentive grants under section 1125A of the ESEA: Provided 
further, That $9,167,000 shall be to carry out sections 1501 
and 1503 of the ESEA: Provided further, That $545,633,000 shall 
be available for school improvement grants under section 
1003(g) of the ESEA, which shall be allocated by the Secretary 
through the formula described in section 1003(g)(2) and shall 
be used consistent with the requirements of section 1003(g), 
except that State and local educational agencies may use such 
funds (and funds appropriated for section 1003(g) under the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act) to serve any school 
eligible to receive assistance under part A of title I that has 
not made adequate yearly progress for at least 2 years or is in 
the State's lowest quintile of performance based on proficiency 
rates and, in the case of secondary schools, priority shall be 
given to those schools with graduation rates below 60 percent: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1003(g)(5)(A), 
each State educational agency may establish a maximum subgrant 
size of not more than $2,000,000 for each participating school 
applicable to such funds and to the funds appropriated for 
section 1003(g) under the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act: Provided further, That the ESEA title I, part A funds 
awarded to local educational agencies under the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 for fiscal year 2009 
shall not be considered for the purpose of calculating hold-
harmless amounts under subsections 1122(c) and 1125A(g)(3) in 
making allocations under title I, part A for fiscal year 2010 
and succeeding years and, notwithstanding section 1003(e), 
shall not be considered for the purpose of reserving funds 
under section 1003(a): Provided further, That $250,000,000 
shall be available under section 1502 of the ESEA for a 
comprehensive literacy development and education program to 
advance literacy skills, including pre-literacy skills, 
reading, and writing, for students from birth through grade 12, 
including limited-English-proficient students and students with 
disabilities, of which one-half of 1 percent shall be reserved 
for the Secretary of the Interior for such a program at schools 
funded by the Bureau of Indian Education, one-half of 1 percent 
shall be reserved for grants to the outlying areas for such a 
program, $10,000,000 shall be reserved for formula grants to 
States based on each State's relative share of funds under part 
A of title I of the ESEA for fiscal year 2009 (excluding funds 
awarded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009), except that no State shall receive less than $150,000, 
to establish or support a State Literacy Team with expertise in 
literacy development and education for children from birth 
through grade 12 to assist the State in developing a 
comprehensive literacy plan, up to 5 percent may be reserved 
for national activities, and the remainder shall be used to 
award competitive grants to State educational agencies for such 
a program, of which a State educational agency may reserve up 
to 5 percent for State leadership activities, including 
technical assistance and training, data collection, reporting, 
and administration, and shall subgrant not less than 95 percent 
to local educational agencies or, in the case of early 
literacy, to local educational agencies or other nonprofit 
providers of early childhood education that partner with a 
public or private nonprofit organization or agency with a 
demonstrated record of effectiveness in improving the early 
literacy development of children from birth through 
kindergarten entry and in providing professional development in 
early literacy, giving priority to such agencies or other 
entities serving greater numbers or percentages of 
disadvantaged children: Provided further, That the State 
educational agency shall ensure that at least 15 percent of the 
subgranted funds are used to serve children from birth through 
age 5, 40 percent are used to serve students in kindergarten 
through grade 5, and 40 percent are used to serve students in 
middle and high school including an equitable distribution of 
funds between middle and high schools: Provided further, That 
eligible entities receiving subgrants from State educational 
agencies shall use such funds for services and activities that 
have the characteristics of effective literacy instruction 
through professional development, screening and assessment, 
targeted interventions for students reading below grade level 
and other research-based methods of improving classroom 
instruction and practice.

                               Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to 
federally affected schools authorized by title VIII of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, $1,276,183,000, 
of which $1,138,000,000 shall be for basic support payments 
under section 8003(b), $48,602,000 shall be for payments for 
children with disabilities under section 8003(d), $17,509,000 
shall be for construction under section 8007(a), $67,208,000 
shall be for Federal property payments under section 8002, and 
$4,864,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
facilities maintenance under section 8008: Provided, That for 
purposes of computing the amount of a payment for an eligible 
local educational agency under section 8003(a) for school year 
2009-2010, children enrolled in a school of such agency that 
would otherwise be eligible for payment under section 
8003(a)(1)(B) of such Act, but due to the deployment of both 
parents or legal guardians, or a parent or legal guardian 
having sole custody of such children, or due to the death of a 
military parent or legal guardian while on active duty (so long 
as such children reside on Federal property as described in 
section 8003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer eligible under such 
section, shall be considered as eligible students under such 
section, provided such students remain in average daily 
attendance at a school in the same local educational agency 
they attended prior to their change in eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized 
by parts A, B, and D of title II, part B of title IV, subparts 
6 and 9 of part D of title V, parts A and B of title VI, and 
parts B and C of title VII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA''); the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act; section 203 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act of 2002; the Compact of Free Association 
Amendments Act of 2003; part Z of title VIII of the Higher 
Education Act (``HEA''); and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
$5,228,444,000, of which $3,363,993,000 shall become available 
on July 1, 2010, and remain available through September 30, 
2011, and of which $1,681,441,000 shall become available on 
October 1, 2010, and shall remain available through September 
30, 2011, for academic year 2010-2011: Provided, That funds 
made available to carry out part B of title VII of the ESEA may 
be used for construction, renovation, and modernization of any 
elementary school, secondary school, or structure related to an 
elementary school or secondary school, run by the Department of 
Education of the State of Hawaii, that serves a predominantly 
Native Hawaiian student body: Provided further, That from the 
funds referred to in the preceding proviso, not less than 
$1,500,000 shall be for the activities described in such 
proviso and $1,500,000 shall be for a grant to the University 
of Hawaii School of Law for a Center of Excellence in Native 
Hawaiian law: Provided further, That from the funds referred to 
in the second preceding proviso, $500,000 shall be for part Z 
of title VIII of the HEA: Provided further, That funds made 
available to carry out part C of title VII of the ESEA may be 
used for construction: Provided further, That up to 100 percent 
of the funds available to a State educational agency under part 
D of title II of the ESEA may be used for subgrants described 
in section 2412(a)(2)(B) of such Act: Provided further, That 
funds made available under this heading for section 2421 of the 
ESEA may be used for activities authorized under section 802 of 
the Higher Education Opportunity Act: Provided further, That 
$56,313,000 shall be available to carry out section 203 of the 
Educational Technical Assistance Act of 2002: Provided further, 
That $34,391,000 shall be available to carry out part D of 
title V of the ESEA: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated under this heading may be used to carry out 
section 5494 under the ESEA: Provided further, That $17,687,000 
shall be available to carry out the Supplemental Education 
Grants program for the Federated States of Micronesia and the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands: Provided further, That up to 
5 percent of these amounts may be reserved by the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
to administer the Supplemental Education Grants programs and to 
obtain technical assistance, oversight and consultancy services 
in the administration of these grants and to reimburse the 
United States Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education for such services: Provided further, That 
$9,729,000 of the funds available for the Foreign Language 
Assistance Program shall be available for 5-year grants to 
local educational agencies that would work in partnership with 
one or more institutions of higher education to establish or 
expand articulated programs of study in languages critical to 
United States national security that will enable successful 
students to advance from elementary school through college to 
achieve a superior level of proficiency in those languages: 
Provided further, That of the funds available for section 
2103(a) of the ESEA, $5,000,000 shall be available to continue 
a national school leadership partnership initiative as 
described in the statement of the managers on the conference 
report accompanying this Act.

                            Indian Education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not 
otherwise provided, title VII, part A of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $127,282,000.

                       Innovation and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by part G of title 
I, subpart 5 of part A and parts C and D of title II, parts B, 
C, and D of title V, and section 1504 of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA''), and by part F of 
title VIII of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $1,389,065,000: 
Provided, That $10,649,000 shall be provided to the National 
Board for Professional Teaching Standards to carry out section 
2151(c) of the ESEA: Provided further, That from funds for 
subpart 4, part C of title II of the ESEA, up to 3 percent 
shall be available to the Secretary of Education for technical 
assistance and dissemination of information: Provided further, 
That $671,570,000 shall be available to carry out part D of 
title V of the ESEA: Provided further, That $88,791,000 shall 
be used for the projects, and in the amounts, specified in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying 
this Act: Provided further, That $1,000,000 shall be for a 
national clearinghouse that will collect and disseminate 
information on effective educational practices and the latest 
research regarding the planning, design, financing, 
construction, improvement, operation, and maintenance of safe, 
healthy, high-performance public facilities for nursery and 
pre-kindergarten, kindergarten through grade 12, and higher 
education: Provided further, That $400,000,000 of the funds for 
subpart 1 of part D of title V of the ESEA shall be for 
competitive grants to local educational agencies, including 
charter schools that are local educational agencies, or States, 
or partnerships of: (1) a local educational agency, a State, or 
both; and (2) at least one non-profit organization to develop 
and implement performance-based compensation systems for 
teachers, principals, and other personnel in high-need schools: 
Provided further, That such performance-based compensation 
systems must consider gains in student academic achievement as 
well as classroom evaluations conducted multiple times during 
each school year among other factors and provide educators with 
incentives to take on additional responsibilities and 
leadership roles: Provided further, That recipients of such 
grants shall demonstrate that such performance-based systems 
are developed with the input of teachers and school leaders in 
the schools and local educational agencies to be served by the 
grant: Provided further, That recipients of such grants may use 
such funds to develop or improve systems and tools (which may 
be developed and used for the entire local educational agency 
or only for schools served under the grant) that would enhance 
the quality and success of the compensation system, such as 
high-quality teacher evaluations and tools to measure growth in 
student achievement: Provided further, That applications for 
such grants shall include a plan to sustain financially the 
activities conducted and systems developed under the grant once 
the grant period has expired: Provided further, That up to 5 
percent of such funds for competitive grants shall be available 
for technical assistance, training, peer review of 
applications, program outreach and evaluation activities: 
Provided further, That of the funds available for part B of 
title V of the ESEA, the Secretary shall use up to $23,082,000 
to carry out activities under section 5205(b) and under subpart 
2: Provided further, That of the funds available for subpart 1 
of part B of title V of the ESEA, and notwithstanding section 
5205(a), the Secretary may reserve up to $50,000,000 to make 
multiple awards to non-profit charter management organizations 
and other entities that are not for-profit entities for the 
replication and expansion of successful charter school models 
and shall reserve $10,000,000 to carry out the activities 
described in section 5205(a), including by providing technical 
assistance to authorized public chartering agencies in order to 
increase the number of high-performing charter schools: 
Provided further, That the funds referenced in the preceding 
proviso shall not be obligated prior to submission of a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the planned uses of 
such funds: Provided further, That each application submitted 
pursuant to section 5203(a) shall describe a plan to monitor 
and hold accountable authorized public chartering agencies 
through such activities as providing technical assistance or 
establishing a professional development program, which may 
include planning, training and systems development for staff of 
authorized public chartering agencies to improve the capacity 
of such agencies in the State to authorize, monitor, and hold 
accountable charter schools: Provided further, That each 
application submitted pursuant to section 5203(a) shall contain 
assurances that State law, regulations, or other policies 
require that: (1) each authorized charter school in the State 
operate under a legally binding charter or performance contract 
between itself and the school's authorized public chartering 
agency that describes the obligations and responsibilities of 
the school and the public chartering agency; conduct annual, 
timely, and independent audits of the school's financial 
statements that are filed with the school's authorized public 
chartering agency; and demonstrate improved student academic 
achievement; and (2) authorized public chartering agencies use 
increases in student academic achievement for all groups of 
students described in section 1111(b)(2)(C)(v) of the ESEA as 
the most important factor when determining to renew or revoke a 
school's charter: Provided further, That from the funds for 
subpart 1 of part D of title V of the ESEA, $12,000,000 shall 
be for competitive awards to local educational agencies located 
in counties in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas that were 
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as 
counties eligible for individual assistance due to damage 
caused by Hurricanes Katrina, Ike, or Gustav: Provided further, 
That such awards shall be used to improve education in areas 
affected by such hurricanes and shall be for such activities as 
replacing instructional materials and equipment; paying teacher 
incentives; modernizing or renovating or repairing school 
buildings; beginning or expanding Advanced Placement or other 
rigorous courses; supporting the expansion of charter schools; 
and supporting after-school or extended learning time 
activities.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

    For carrying out activities authorized by subpart 3 of part 
C of title II, part A of title IV, and subparts 2, 3 and 10 of 
part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965, $393,053,000: Provided, That $224,053,000 shall be 
available for subpart 2 of part A of title IV, of which 
$8,212,000 shall be used for activities authorized under 
subpart 3 of part D of title V: Provided further, That 
$134,000,000 shall be available to carry out part D of title V: 
Provided further, That of the funds available to carry out 
subpart 3 of part C of title II, up to $13,383,000 may be used 
to carry out section 2345 and $2,957,000 shall be used by the 
Center for Civic Education to implement a comprehensive program 
to improve public knowledge, understanding, and support of the 
Congress and the State legislatures.

                      English Language Acquisition

    For carrying out part A of title III of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $750,000,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 2010, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2011, except that 6.5 percent of such 
amount shall be available on October 1, 2009, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2011, to carry out activities 
under section 3111(c)(1)(C): Provided, That the Secretary of 
Education shall use estimates of the American Community Survey 
child counts for the most recent 3-year period available to 
calculate allocations under such part.

                           Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act (``IDEA'') and the Special Olympics Sport and 
Empowerment Act of 2004, $12,587,035,000, of which 
$3,726,354,000 shall become available on July 1, 2010, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2011, and of which 
$8,592,383,000 shall become available on October 1, 2010, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2011, for academic 
year 2010-2011: Provided, That $13,250,000 shall be for 
Recording for the Blind and Dyslexic, Inc., to support the 
development, production, and circulation of accessible 
educational materials: Provided further, That $737,000 shall be 
for the recipient of funds provided by Public Law 105-78 under 
section 687(b)(2)(G) of the IDEA (as in effect prior to the 
enactment of the Individuals with Disabilities Education 
Improvement Act of 2004) to provide information on diagnosis, 
intervention, and teaching strategies for children with 
disabilities: Provided further, That the amount for section 
611(b)(2) of the IDEA shall be equal to the lesser of the 
amount available for that activity during fiscal year 2009, 
increased by the amount of inflation as specified in section 
619(d)(2)(B) of the IDEA, or the percent change in the funds 
appropriated under section 611(i) of the IDEA, but not less 
than the amount for that activity during fiscal year 2009: 
Provided further, That the part B and C funds awarded to States 
under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 for 
fiscal year 2009 shall not be considered for the purposes of 
calculating State allocations under sections 611, 619, and 643 
for fiscal year 2010 and succeeding years: Provided further, 
That funds made available for the Special Olympics Sport and 
Empowerment Act of 2004 may be used to support expenses 
associated with the Special Olympics National and World games.

            Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Assistive Technology Act of 
1998, and the Helen Keller National Center Act, $3,506,861,000: 
Provided, That for purposes of determining whether a State may 
administer the Centers for Independent Living program under 
section 723 of the Rehabilitation Act, for fiscal year 2010, 
the Secretary shall exclude American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 funds awarded in fiscal year 2009 from the 
calculation of Federal funding allotted under section 721(c) 
and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act: Provided further, That 
$5,095,000 shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, 
specified under the heading ``Rehabilitation Services and 
Disability Research'' in the statement of the managers on the 
conference report accompanying this Act.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 AMERICAN PRINTING HOUSE FOR THE BLIND

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, $24,600,000.

               NATIONAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE FOR THE DEAF

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under 
titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, 
$68,437,000, of which $5,400,000 shall be for construction and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That from the 
total amount available, the Institute may at its discretion use 
funds for the endowment program as authorized under section 207 
of such Act.

                          GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of 
Gallaudet University under titles I and II of the Education of 
the Deaf Act of 1986, $123,000,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
be for construction and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That from the total amount available, the University 
may at its discretion use funds for the endowment program as 
authorized under section 207 of such Act.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the 
Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (``AEFLA''), subpart 4 
of part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') and title VIII-D of the Higher Education 
Amendments of 1998, $2,016,447,000, of which $4,400,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2009, and remain available 
through September 30, 2011, of which $1,221,047,000 shall 
become available on July 1, 2010, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2011, and of which $791,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2010, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2011: Provided, That in allocating AEFLA 
State grants, the Secretary of Education shall first distribute 
up to $45,907,000 to those States and Outlying Areas that, due 
to administrative error, were underpaid for fiscal years 2003 
through 2008 in the amounts such States and Outlying Areas were 
underpaid: Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
reduce the allocations for those years to the States and 
Outlying Areas that were overpaid through such error, or take 
other corrective action with respect to those overpayments: 
Provided further, That the additional funds provided to States 
and Outlying Areas to correct the administrative error shall 
not be considered in determining the ``hold harmless'' amounts 
under section 211(f) of the AEFLA for fiscal year 2011 or 
subsequent fiscal years: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided for Adult Education State Grants, $75,000,000 shall be 
made available for integrated English literacy and civics 
education services to immigrants and other limited English 
proficient populations: Provided further, That of the amount 
reserved for integrated English literacy and civics education, 
notwithstanding section 211 of the AEFLA, 65 percent shall be 
allocated to States based on a State's absolute need as 
determined by calculating each State's share of a 10-year 
average of the United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services data for immigrants admitted for legal permanent 
residence for the 10 most recent years, and 35 percent 
allocated to States that experienced growth as measured by the 
average of the 3 most recent years for which United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services data for immigrants 
admitted for legal permanent residence are available, except 
that no State shall be allocated an amount less than $60,000: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available for AEFLA, 
$11,346,000 shall be for national leadership activities under 
section 243: Provided further, That $88,000,000 shall be 
available to support the activities authorized under subpart 4 
of part D of title V of the ESEA, of which up to 5 percent 
shall become available on October 1, 2009, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2011, for evaluation, technical 
assistance, school networks, peer review of applications, and 
program outreach activities, and of which not less than 95 
percent shall become available on July 1, 2010, and remain 
available through September 30, 2011, for grants to local 
educational agencies: Provided further, That funds made 
available to local educational agencies under this subpart 
shall be used only for activities related to establishing 
smaller learning communities within large high schools or small 
high schools that provide alternatives for students enrolled in 
large high schools: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Education may use amounts available under this heading for the 
necessary costs of any closeout of the National Institute for 
Literacy.

                      Student Financial Assistance

                     (including deferral of funds)

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 4 of part A, part C and 
part E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
$19,296,809,000, which shall remain available through September 
30, 2011.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be 
eligible during award year 2010-2011 shall be $4,860.
    Of the funds made available under section 401A(e)(1)(D) of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, $561,000,000 shall not be 
available until October 1, 2010.

                       Student Aid Administration

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of 
title I, and subparts 1, 3, 4, and 9 of part A, and parts B, C, 
D, and E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
$870,402,000, which shall remain available until expended.

                            Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, 
titles II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (``HEA''), section 1543 of the Higher 
Education Amendments of 1992, the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, title VIII of the Higher 
Education Amendments of 1998, part I of subtitle A of title VI 
of the America COMPETES Act, and section 117 of the Carl D. 
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, 
$2,255,665,000: Provided, That $9,687,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2011, shall be available to fund 
fellowships for academic year 2011-2012 under subpart 1 of part 
A of title VII of the HEA, under the terms and conditions of 
such subpart 1: Provided further, That $609,000 shall be for 
data collection and evaluation activities for programs under 
the HEA, including such activities needed to comply with the 
Government Performance and Results Act of 1993: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
made available in this Act to carry out title VI of the HEA and 
section 102(b)(6) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 may be used to support visits and study in 
foreign countries by individuals who are participating in 
advanced foreign language training and international studies in 
areas that are vital to United States national security and who 
plan to apply their language skills and knowledge of these 
countries in the fields of government, the professions, or 
international development: Provided further, That of the funds 
referred to in the preceding proviso up to 1 percent may be 
used for program evaluation, national outreach, and information 
dissemination activities: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, a recipient of a 
multi-year award under section 316 of the HEA, as that section 
was in effect prior to the date of enactment of the Higher 
Education Opportunity Act (``HEOA''), that would have otherwise 
received a continuation award for fiscal year 2010 under that 
section, shall receive under section 316, as amended by the 
HEOA, not less than the amount that such recipient would have 
received under such a continuation award: Provided further, 
That the portion of the funds received under section 316 by a 
recipient described in the preceding proviso that is equal to 
the amount of such continuation award shall be used in 
accordance with the terms of such continuation award: Provided 
further, That $1,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available to carry out a scholarship program for the 
purpose of increasing the skilled workforce for industrial 
health and safety occupations, including mine safety: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Education shall identify these 
scholarships as ``Erma Byrd Scholarships'': Provided further, 
That such scholarships shall be awarded without regard to an 
applicant's prior work experience, but the Secretary shall, 
notwithstanding section 437 of the General Education Provisions 
Act and 5 U.S.C. 553, by notice in the Federal Register, 
establish the eligibility requirements, service obligations, 
payback requirements, and other program requirements similar to 
those specified in section 515 of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act as are necessary to implement such a program: 
Provided further, That such scholarship funds may be used to 
replace a student's expected family contribution, but 
institutions accepting such scholarship funds may not use these 
funds to supplant existing institutional aid: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall be authorized to accept contributions 
for such scholarships from private sources: Provided further, 
That these funds shall be used for scholarships for academic 
year 2010-2011 and may be available for scholarships in 
academic year 2011-2012: Provided further, That $101,507,000 
shall be used for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under the heading ``Higher Education'' in the statement of the 
managers on the conference report accompanying this Act: 
Provided further, That $17,750,000 shall be used for the 
programs specified under the ``Fund for the Improvement of 
Postsecondary Education'' in the statement of the managers in 
accordance with the specified sections.

                           Howard University

    For partial support of Howard University, $234,977,000, of 
which not less than $3,600,000 shall be for a matching 
endowment grant pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act 
and shall remain available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities 
related to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, $461,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $20,228,000, as 
authorized pursuant to part D of title III of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (``HEA''): Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $178,221,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
Historically Black College and University Capital Financing 
Program entered into pursuant to part D of title III of the 
HEA, $354,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Education 
Sciences Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of 
Educational Progress Authorization Act, section 208 of the 
Educational Technical Assistance Act of 2002, and section 664 
of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 
$659,006,000, of which $588,356,000 shall be available through 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That funds available to carry out 
section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act may be 
used for Statewide data systems that include postsecondary and 
workforce information and information on children of all ages: 
Provided further, That up to $10,000,000 of the funds available 
to carry out section 208 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act may be used for State data coordinators and for 
awards to public or private organizations or agencies to 
improve data coordination, quality, and use.

                        Departmental Management

                         PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of three 
passenger motor vehicles, $456,200,000, of which $8,200,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for relocation of, 
and renovation of buildings occupied by, Department staff.

                        OFFICE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education 
Organization Act, $103,024,000.

                    OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector 
General, as authorized by section 212 of the Department of 
Education Organization Act, $60,053,000.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 301.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the 
purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to 
overcome racial imbalance in any school or school system, or 
for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the 
purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to 
carry out a plan of racial desegregation of any school or 
school system.
    Sec. 302.  None of the funds contained in this Act shall be 
used to require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of 
any student to a school other than the school which is nearest 
the student's home, except for a student requiring special 
education, to the school offering such special education, in 
order to comply with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
For the purpose of this section an indirect requirement of 
transportation of students includes the transportation of 
students to carry out a plan involving the reorganization of 
the grade structure of schools, the pairing of schools, or the 
clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing or clustering. The prohibition described 
in this section does not include the establishment of magnet 
schools.
    Sec. 303.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and 
meditation in the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985) which are appropriated for the Department 
of Education in this Act may be transferred between 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by 
more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the 
transfer authority granted by this section shall be available 
only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used to create 
any new program or to fund any project or activity for which no 
funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any 
transfer.
    Sec. 305.  The Outlying Areas may consolidate funds 
received under this Act, pursuant to 48 U.S.C. 1469a, under 
part A of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act.
    Sec. 306.  None of the funds made available in the sixth 
proviso under the heading ``Innovation and Improvement'' in 
this Act shall be made available for new awards under the 
Teacher Incentive Fund prior to the submission of an impact 
evaluation plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 307.  Section 14007 of division A of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a)(3) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(3) Purpose of awards.--The Secretary shall make 
        awards to eligible entities in order to identify, 
        document, and bring to scale innovative best practices 
        based on demonstrated success, to allow such eligible 
        entities to--
                    ``(A) expand their work and serve as models 
                for best practices; and
                    ``(B) work in partnership with the private 
                sector and the philanthropic community.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through 
                (4) as paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B), (2), and (3), 
                respectively;
                    (B) in paragraph (1)(A), as so 
                redesignated, by inserting ``or'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (C) by amending paragraph (1)(B), as so 
                redesignated, to read as follows:
            ``(B) have demonstrated success in significantly 
        increasing student academic achievement for all groups 
        of students described in such section;''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, 
                by striking ``they have established 
                partnerships'' and inserting ``it has 
                established one or more partnerships'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``paragraphs'' 
        and all that follows through ``such requirements'' and 
        inserting ``paragraphs (1)(A) or (1)(B) and (2) of 
        subsection (b) if the nonprofit organization has a 
        record of significantly improving student achievement, 
        attainment, or retention and shall be considered to 
        have met the requirements of subsection (b)(3) if it 
        demonstrates that it will meet the requirement relating 
        to private-sector matching''; and
            (4) by adding at the end a new subsection (d) to 
        read as follows:
    ``(d) Subgrants.--In the case of an eligible entity that is 
a partnership described in subsection (a)(1)(B), the partner 
serving as the fiscal agent may make subgrants to one or more 
of the other entities in the partnership.''.
    Sec. 308.  Section 307 of the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2008 is amended by striking ``and 2009'' 
each place the term occurs and inserting ``through 2011''.
    Sec. 309.  Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall be applied by substituting ``2010'' 
for ``2009''.
    Sec. 310.  Section 14006(c) of division A of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1) In general.--'' before 
        ``Each State''; and
            (2) by adding a new paragraph (2) at the end to 
        read as follows:
            ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to 
        grants made by the Secretary to consortia of States to 
        develop academic assessments that are aligned with 
        academic standards.''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the Committee for Purchase From 
People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public 
Law 92-28, $5,396,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (``the Corporation'') to carry out the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (``1973 Act'') and the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990 (``1990 Act''), 
$857,021,000, of which $319,974,000 shall be to carry out the 
1973 Act and $537,047,000 shall be to carry out the 1990 Act 
and notwithstanding sections 198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 501(a)(4)(C), 
and 501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act: Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading: (1) up to 1 percent of program 
grant funds may be used to defray the costs of conducting grant 
application reviews, including the use of outside peer 
reviewers and electronic management of the grants cycle; (2) 
$50,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized under 
section 501(a)(4)(E) of the 1990 Act; (3) $7,500,000 shall be 
available for expenses to carry out sections 112(e), 179A, and 
198O and subtitle J of title I of the 1990 Act, notwithstanding 
section 501(a)(6) of the 1990 Act; (4) $5,000,000 shall be 
available for grants to public or private nonprofit 
institutions to increase the participation of individuals with 
disabilities in national service and for demonstration 
activities in furtherance of this purpose, notwithstanding 
section 129(k)(1) of the 1990 Act; (5) $17,000,000 shall be 
available to provide assistance to State commissions on 
national and community service, under section 126(a) of the 
1990 Act and notwithstanding section 501(a)(5)(B) of the 1990 
Act; (6) $29,000,000 shall be available to carry out subtitle E 
of the 1990 Act; and (7) $4,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act, 
which, notwithstanding the provisions of section 198P shall be 
awarded by the Corporation on a competitive basis to State 
commissions.

                         NATIONAL SERVICE TRUST

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the National Service Trust 
established under subtitle D of title I of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (``1990 Act''), $197,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Corporation 
for National and Community Service may transfer additional 
funds from the amount provided within ``Operating Expenses'' 
allocated to grants under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act 
to the National Service Trust upon determination that such 
transfer is necessary to support the activities of national 
service participants and after notice is transmitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate:  Provided further, That amounts appropriated 
for or transferred to the National Service Trust may be 
invested under section 145(b) of the 1990 Act without regard to 
the requirement to apportion funds under 31 U.S.C. 1513(b).

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of administration as provided under 
section 501(a)(5) of the National and Community Service Act of 
1990 and under section 504(a) of the Domestic Volunteer Service 
Act of 1973, including payment of salaries, authorized travel, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia, the employment of experts 
and consultants authorized under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to 
exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $88,000,000.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $7,700,000.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401.  The Corporation for National and Community 
Service (``the Corporation'') shall make any significant 
changes to program requirements, service delivery or policy 
only through public notice and comment rulemaking. For fiscal 
year 2010, during any grant selection process, an officer or 
employee of the Corporation shall not knowingly disclose any 
covered grant selection information regarding such selection, 
directly or indirectly, to any person other than an officer or 
employee of the Corporation that is authorized by the 
Corporation to receive such information.
    Sec. 402.  AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the 
National Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum 
share requirement of 24 percent for the first 3 years that they 
receive AmeriCorps funding, and thereafter shall meet the 
overall minimum share requirement as provided in section 
2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, without 
regard to the operating costs match requirement in section 
121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
section 140 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, 
and subject to partial waiver consistent with section 2521.70 
of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 403.  Donations made to the Corporation for National 
and Community Service under section 196 of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (``1990 Act'') for the purposes 
of financing programs and operations under titles I and II of 
the 1973 Act or subtitle B, C, D, or E of title I of the 1990 
Act shall be used to supplement and not supplant current 
programs and operations.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting 
(``Corporation''), as authorized by the Communications Act of 
1934, an amount which shall be available within limitations 
specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 2012, $445,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available to the 
Corporation by this Act shall be used to pay for receptions, 
parties, or similar forms of entertainment for Government 
officials or employees: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to the Corporation by this Act shall be 
available or used to aid or support any program or activity 
from which any person is excluded, or is denied benefits, or is 
discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, national 
origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to the Corporation by this Act shall be 
used to apply any political test or qualification in selecting, 
appointing, promoting, or taking any other personnel action 
with respect to officers, agents, and employees of the 
Corporation: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Corporation by this Act shall be used to 
support the Television Future Fund or any similar purpose. In 
addition, for payment to the Corporation for fiscal year 2010, 
$86,000,000 as follows:
            (1) $25,000,000 shall be for fiscal stabilization 
        grants to public radio and television licensees, with 
        no deduction for administrative or other costs of the 
        Corporation, to maintain local programming and services 
        and preserve jobs threatened by declines in non-Federal 
        revenues due to the downturn in the economy, to be 
        awarded no later than 45 days after enactment of this 
        Act;
            (2) $36,000,000 shall be for costs related to 
        digital program production, development, and 
        distribution associated with the transition of public 
        broadcasting to digital broadcasting, to be awarded as 
        determined by the Corporation in consultation with 
        public radio and television licensees or permittees, or 
        their designated representatives; and
            (3) $25,000,000 is available pursuant to section 
        396(k)(10) of the Communications Act of 1934 for 
        replacement and upgrade of the public radio 
        interconnection system.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and 
Conciliation Service (``Service'') to carry out the functions 
vested in it by the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; for expenses 
necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation Act of 1978; and 
for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out the 
functions vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, 
$46,652,000, including $349,000 for activities authorized by 
the Labor-Management Cooperation Act of 1978: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, fees charged, up to full-cost 
recovery, for special training activities and other conflict 
resolution services and technical assistance, including those 
provided to foreign governments and international 
organizations, and for arbitration services shall be credited 
to and merged with this account, and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That fees for arbitration 
services shall be available only for education, training, and 
professional development of the agency workforce: Provided 
further, That the Director of the Service is authorized to 
accept and use on behalf of the United States gifts of services 
and real, personal, or other property in the aid of any 
projects or functions within the Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Review Commission, $10,358,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    OFFICE OF MUSEUM AND LIBRARY SERVICES: GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION

    For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 
1996 and the National Museum of African American History and 
Culture Act, $282,251,000, of which $16,382,000 shall be used 
for the projects, and in the amounts, specified under the 
heading ``Office of Museum and Library Services: Grants and 
Administration'' in the statement of the managers on the 
conference report accompanying this Act.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the 
Social Security Act, $11,800,000, to be transferred to this 
appropriation from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund 
and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                     National Council on Disability

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on 
Disability as authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act 
of 1973, $3,271,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations 
Board to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-
Management Relations Act, 1947, and other laws, $283,400,000: 
Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
to organize or assist in organizing agricultural laborers or 
used in connection with investigations, hearings, directives, 
or orders concerning bargaining units composed of agricultural 
laborers as referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 5, 
1935, and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 
1947, and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 
1938, and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and 
waterways when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit 
basis and at least 95 percent of the water stored or supplied 
thereby is used for farming purposes.

                        National Mediation Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Railway Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by the 
President, $13,463,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and 
Health Review Commission, $11,712,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                     DUAL BENEFITS PAYMENTS ACCOUNT

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, 
authorized under section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act 
of 1974, $64,000,000, which shall include amounts becoming 
available in fiscal year 2010 pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) 
of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, an amount, not to exceed 
2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall be available 
proportional to the amount by which the product of recipients 
and the average benefit received exceeds the amount available 
for payment of vested dual benefits: Provided, That the total 
amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 approximately 
equal amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal 
year.

          FEDERAL PAYMENTS TO THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for 
the payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for 
interest earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2011, which shall be the 
maximum amount available for payment pursuant to section 417 of 
Public Law 98-76.

                      LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATION

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board 
(``Board'') for administration of the Railroad Retirement Act 
and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, $109,073,000, to 
be derived in such amounts as determined by the Board from the 
railroad retirement accounts and from moneys credited to the 
railroad unemployment insurance administration fund.

             LIMITATION ON THE OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
for audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized 
by the Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than $8,186,000, 
to be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and 
railroad unemployment insurance account.

                     Social Security Administration

                PAYMENTS TO SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUNDS

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, as 
provided under sections 201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the 
Social Security Act, $20,404,000.

                  SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME PROGRAM

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security 
Act, section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public 
Law 93-66, as amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, 
including payment to the Social Security trust funds for 
administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 201(g)(1) 
of the Social Security Act, $34,742,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any portion of the 
funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and not 
obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to 
the Treasury.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, 
benefit payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social 
Security Act, for unanticipated costs incurred for the current 
fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social 
Security Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, 
$16,000,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger 
motor vehicles, and not to exceed $45,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, not more than 
$10,800,500,000 may be expended, as authorized by section 
201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any one or all of 
the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That not less 
than $2,300,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory 
Board: Provided further, That unobligated balances of funds 
provided under this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2010 
not needed for fiscal year 2010 shall remain available until 
expended to invest in the Social Security Administration 
information technology and telecommunications hardware and 
software infrastructure, including related equipment and non-
payroll administrative expenses associated solely with this 
information technology and telecommunications infrastructure: 
Provided further, That reimbursement to the trust funds under 
this heading for expenditures for official time for employees 
of the Social Security Administration pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
7131, and for facilities or support services for labor 
organizations pursuant to policies, regulations, or procedures 
referred to in section 7135(b) of such title shall be made by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, with interest, from amounts in 
the general fund not otherwise appropriated, as soon as 
possible after such expenditures are made.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, not less 
than $273,000,000 shall be available for the cost associated 
with conducting continuing disability reviews under titles II 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated 
with conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI 
of the Social Security Act.
    In addition to the amounts made available above, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $485,000,000, for 
additional continuing disability reviews and redeterminations 
of eligibility, of which, upon a determination by the Office of 
the Chief Actuary that such initiative would be at least as 
cost effective as redeterminations of eligibility, up to 
$34,000,000 shall be available for one or more initiatives to 
improve asset verification: Provided, That the Commissioner 
shall provide to the Congress (at the conclusion of the fiscal 
year) a report on the obligation and expenditure of these 
additional amounts, similar to the reports that were required 
by section 103(d)(2) of Public Law 104-121 for fiscal years 
1996 through 2002.
    In addition, $160,000,000 to be derived from administration 
fees in excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected 
pursuant to section 1616(d) of the Social Security Act or 
section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 93-66, which shall remain 
available until expended. To the extent that the amounts 
collected pursuant to such sections in fiscal year 2010 exceed 
$160,000,000, the amounts shall be available in fiscal year 
2011 only to the extent provided in advance in appropriations 
Acts.
    In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees 
collected pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security 
Protection Act, which shall remain available until expended.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $29,000,000, together with not to exceed $73,682,000, to 
be transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) 
of the Social Security Act from the Federal Old-Age and 
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability 
Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the 
``Limitation on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security 
Administration, to be merged with this account, to be available 
for the time and purposes for which this account is available: 
Provided, That notice of such transfers shall be transmitted 
promptly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education are authorized to transfer unexpended 
balances of prior appropriations to accounts corresponding to 
current appropriations provided in this Act. Such transferred 
balances shall be used for the same purpose, and for the same 
periods of time, for which they were originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in 
this Act shall be used, other than for normal and recognized 
executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or 
propaganda purposes, for the preparation, distribution, or use 
of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, 
or video presentation designed to support or defeat legislation 
pending before the Congress or any State legislature, except in 
presentation to the Congress or any State legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or 
contract recipient, or agent acting for such recipient, related 
to any activity designed to influence legislation or 
appropriations pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature.
    Sec. 504.  The Secretaries of Labor and Education are 
authorized to make available not to exceed $28,000 and $22,000, 
respectively, from funds available for salaries and expenses 
under titles I and III, respectively, for official reception 
and representation expenses; the Director of the Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses 
not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for ``Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and expenses''; 
and the Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized 
to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $5,000 from funds available for 
``National Mediation Board, Salaries and expenses''.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds contained in this Act may be 
used to distribute any needle or syringe for the purpose of 
preventing the spread of blood borne pathogens in any location 
that has been determined by the local public health or local 
law enforcement authorities to be inappropriate for such 
distribution.
    Sec. 506.  When issuing statements, press releases, 
requests for proposals, bid solicitations and other documents 
describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with 
Federal money, all grantees receiving Federal funds included in 
this Act, including but not limited to State and local 
governments and recipients of Federal research grants, shall 
clearly state--
            (1) the percentage of the total costs of the 
        program or project which will be financed with Federal 
        money;
            (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the 
        project or program; and
            (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs 
        of the project or program that will be financed by non-
        governmental sources.
    Sec. 507. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, 
and none of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are 
appropriated in this Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of 
the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in 
this Act, shall be expended for health benefits coverage that 
includes coverage of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package 
of services covered by a managed care provider or organization 
pursuant to a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 508. (a) The limitations established in the preceding 
section shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of 
        rape or incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a 
        physical disorder, physical injury, or physical 
        illness, including a life-endangering physical 
        condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy 
        itself, that would, as certified by a physician, place 
        the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or 
private person of State, local, or private funds (other than a 
State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from 
offering abortion coverage or the ability of a State or 
locality to contract separately with such a provider for such 
coverage with State funds (other than a State's or locality's 
contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
made available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State or 
local government, if such agency, program, or government 
subjects any institutional or individual health care entity to 
discrimination on the basis that the health care entity does 
not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for 
abortions.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' 
includes an individual physician or other health care 
professional, a hospital, a provider-sponsored organization, a 
health maintenance organization, a health insurance plan, or 
any other kind of health care facility, organization, or plan.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for 
        research purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of 
        injury or death greater than that allowed for research 
        on fetuses in utero under 45 CFR 46.204(b) and section 
        498(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
        289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo 
or embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human 
subject under 45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act, that is derived by fertilization, parthenogenesis, 
cloning, or any other means from one or more human gametes or 
human diploid cells.
    Sec. 510. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used for any activity that promotes the legalization of 
any drug or other substance included in schedule I of the 
schedules of controlled substances established under section 
202 of the Controlled Substances Act except for normal and 
recognized executive-congressional communications.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when 
there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic 
advantage to the use of such drug or other substance or that 
federally sponsored clinical trials are being conducted to 
determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 
1173(b) of the Social Security Act providing for, or providing 
for the assignment of, a unique health identifier for an 
individual (except in an individual's capacity as an employer 
or a health care provider), until legislation is enacted 
specifically approving the standard.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with 
an entity if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the 
        United States and is subject to the requirement in 38 
        U.S.C. 4212(d) regarding submission of an annual report 
        to the Secretary of Labor concerning employment of 
        certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as 
        required by that section for the most recent year for 
        which such requirement was applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 514.  None of the funds made available by this Act to 
carry out the Library Services and Technology Act may be made 
available to any library covered by paragraph (1) of section 
224(f) of such Act, as amended by the Children's Internet 
Protection Act, unless such library has made the certifications 
required by paragraph (4) of such section.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available by this Act to 
carry out part D of title II of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 may be made available to any elementary 
or secondary school covered by paragraph (1) of section 2441(a) 
of such Act, as amended by the Children's Internet Protection 
Act and the No Child Left Behind Act, unless the local 
educational agency with responsibility for such covered school 
has made the certifications required by paragraph (2) of such 
section.
    Sec. 516. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
        any project or activity for which funds have been 
        denied or restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes or renames offices;
            (6) reorganizes programs or activities; or
            (7) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
        activities presently performed by Federal employees;

unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming or of an announcement of intent relating 
to such reprogramming, whichever occurs earlier.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury 
of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
        construction projects), or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing 
        program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel 
        by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a 
        reduction in personnel which would result in a change 
        in existing programs, activities, or projects as 
        approved by Congress;

unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming or of an announcement of intent relating 
to such reprogramming, whichever occurs earlier.
    Sec. 517. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to request that a candidate for appointment to a 
Federal scientific advisory committee disclose the political 
affiliation or voting history of the candidate or the position 
that the candidate holds with respect to political issues not 
directly related to and necessary for the work of the committee 
involved.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to disseminate scientific information that is deliberately 
false or misleading.
    Sec. 518.  Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each 
department and related agency funded through this Act shall 
submit an operating plan that details at the program, project, 
and activity level any funding allocations for fiscal year 2010 
that are different than those specified in this Act, the 
accompanying detailed table in the statement of the managers on 
the conference report accompanying this Act, or the fiscal year 
2010 budget request.
    Sec. 519.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education shall each prepare and submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate a report on the number and amount of contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements exceeding $500,000 in value 
and awarded by the Department on a non-competitive basis during 
each quarter of fiscal year 2010, but not to include grants 
awarded on a formula basis or directed by law. Such report 
shall include the name of the contractor or grantee, the amount 
of funding, the governmental purpose, including a justification 
for issuing the award on a non-competitive basis. Such report 
shall be transmitted to the Committees within 30 days after the 
end of the quarter for which the report is submitted.
    Sec. 520.  Section 8103(b) of Public Law 110-28 is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting before the 
        semicolon the following: ``, except that, beginning in 
        2010 and each year thereafter, such increase shall 
        occur on September 30''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting before the 
        period the following: ``, except that, beginning in 
        2010 and each year thereafter, such increase shall 
        occur on September 30''.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated by the Commissioner of Social 
Security, for purposes of administering Social Security benefit 
payments under title II of the Social Security Act, to process 
any claim for credit for a quarter of coverage based on work 
performed under a social security account number that is not 
the claimant's number and the performance of such work under 
such number has formed the basis for a conviction of the 
claimant of a violation of section 208(a)(6) or (7) of the 
Social Security Act.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used by the Commissioner of Social Security or the Social 
Security Administration to pay the compensation of employees of 
the Social Security Administration to administer Social 
Security benefit payments, under any agreement between the 
United States and Mexico establishing totalization arrangements 
between the social security system established by title II of 
the Social Security Act and the social security system of 
Mexico, which would not otherwise be payable but for such 
agreement.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used in contravention of title IV of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 
(8 U.S.C. 1611 et seq.).
    Sec. 524. (a) In General.--Strike subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
that appear within section 426(b) of division J of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-447) and 
insert the following:
                    ``(B) Secretary of homeland security.--One-
                third of the amounts deposited into the Fraud 
                Prevention and Detection Account shall remain 
                available to the Secretary of Homeland Security 
                until expended for programs and activities to 
                prevent and detect immigration benefit fraud, 
                including fraud with respect to petitions filed 
                under paragraph (1) or (2)(A) of section 214(c) 
                to grant an alien nonimmigrant status described 
                in subparagraph (H) or (L) of section 
                101(a)(15).
                    ``(C) Secretary of labor.--One-third of the 
                amounts deposited into the Fraud Prevention and 
                Detection Account shall remain available to the 
                Secretary of Labor until expended for wage and 
                hour enforcement programs and activities 
                otherwise authorized to be conducted by the 
                Secretary of Labor that focus on industries 
                likely to employ nonimmigrants, including 
                enforcement programs and activities described 
                in section 212(n) and enforcement programs and 
                activities related to section 
                214(c)(14)(A)(i).''
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for first-class travel by the employees of agencies 
funded by this Act in contravention of sections 301-10.124 of 
title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 526.  Specific projects contained in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
accompanying this Act (H. Rept. 111-220) that are considered 
congressional earmarks for purposes of clause 9 of rule XXI of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, when intended to be 
awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under a full 
and open competition.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in 
an amount greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess 
of such amount unless the prospective contractor or grantee 
certifies in writing to the agency awarding the contract or 
grant that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the 
contractor or grantee has filed all Federal tax returns 
required during the three years preceding the certification, 
has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax 
assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless 
the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or 
offer in compromise that has been approved by the Internal 
Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the 
subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial 
proceeding.
    This division may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

  DIVISION E--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently 
authorized by law, including personnel in the Army Corps of 
Engineers and other personal services necessary for the 
purposes of this appropriation, and for construction and 
operation of facilities in support of the functions of the 
Commander in Chief, $3,719,419,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2014, of which $350,000,000 shall be for trainee 
troop housing facilities: Provided, That of this amount, not to 
exceed $200,519,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, architect and engineer services, and host nation 
support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Army 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
therefor: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Army shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for the funds provided 
for trainee troop housing facilities:  Provided further, That 
the amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the 
projects and activities, and in the amounts, specified under 
the heading ``Military Construction, Army'' and under the 
headings ``Army'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as 
currently authorized by law, including personnel in the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, 
$3,769,003,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $179,652,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary 
of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination 
and the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That the amount 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'' and under the 
headings ``Navy'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently 
authorized by law, $1,450,426,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2014: Provided, That of this amount, not to 
exceed $103,562,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of the Air Force determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor: 
Provided further, That the amount appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be for the projects and activities, and in the 
amounts, specified under the heading ``Military Construction, 
Air Force'' and under the headings ``Air Force'' in the table 
entitled ``Military Construction'' in the explanatory statement 
of managers to accompany this Act: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated for ``Military Construction, Air Force'' 
under Public Law 110-329, $37,500,000 are hereby rescinded.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, installations, 
facilities, and real property for activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as currently authorized by law, $3,093,679,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided, That 
such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations 
of the Department of Defense available for military 
construction or family housing as the Secretary may designate, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, 
and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to 
which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $131,942,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
therefor: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$41,400,000 shall be available for payments to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization for the planning, design, and 
construction of a new North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
headquarters: Provided further, That the amount appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be for the projects and activities, and in 
the amounts, specified under the heading ``Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'' and under the headings ``Defense-
Wide'' in the table entitled ``Military Construction'' in the 
explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for ``Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'' under Public Law 110-329, 
$151,160,000 are hereby rescinded.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and 
administration of the Army National Guard, and contributions 
therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
$582,056,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014, of 
which $30,000,000 shall be for critical unfunded requirements: 
Provided, That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$47,429,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless 
the Director of the Army National Guard determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor: 
Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Army National 
Guard shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for the funds provided 
for critical unfunded requirements:  Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the projects 
and activities, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Military Construction, Army National Guard'' and under the 
headings ``Army National Guard'' in the table entitled 
``Military Construction'' in the explanatory statement of 
managers to accompany this Act.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and 
administration of the Air National Guard, and contributions 
therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
$371,226,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014, of 
which $30,000,000 shall be for critical unfunded requirements: 
Provided, That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$20,021,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless 
the Director of the Air National Guard determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor:  
Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Air National 
Guard shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for the funds provided 
for critical unfunded requirements: Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the projects 
and activities, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Military Construction, Air National Guard'' and under the 
headings ``Air National Guard'' in the table entitled 
``Military Construction'' in the explanatory statement of 
managers to accompany this Act.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and 
administration of the Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $431,566,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2014, of which $30,000,000 shall be for critical 
unfunded requirements: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $22,716,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Army 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
therefor: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of Army 
Reserve shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for the funds 
provided for critical unfunded requirements: Provided further, 
That the amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the 
projects and activities, and in the amounts, specified under 
the heading ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'' and under 
the headings ``Army Reserve'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and 
administration of the reserve components of the Navy and Marine 
Corps as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
$125,874,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014, of 
which $20,000,000 shall be for critical unfunded requirements 
of the Navy Reserve and $35,000,000 shall be for critical 
unfunded requirements of the Marine Forces Reserve:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $2,951,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary 
of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination 
and the reasons therefor: Provided further, That, not later 
than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Chief of Navy Reserve and the Commander, Marine Forces Reserve 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress an expenditure plan for the funds provided for 
critical unfunded requirements:  Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the projects 
and activities, and in the amounts, specified under the heading 
``Military Construction, Navy Reserve'' and under the headings 
``Navy Reserve'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and 
administration of the Air Force Reserve as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
Construction Authorization Acts, $112,269,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2014, of which $55,000,000 shall 
be for critical unfunded requirements: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $3,869,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary 
of the Air Force determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination 
and the reasons therefor: Provided further, That, not later 
than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Chief of Air Force Reserve shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan 
for the funds provided for critical unfunded requirements:  
Provided further, That the amount appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be for the projects and activities, and in the 
amounts, specified under the heading ``Military Construction, 
Air Force Reserve'' and under the headings ``Air Force 
Reserve'' in the table entitled ``Military Construction'' in 
the explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for 
the acquisition and construction of military facilities and 
installations (including international military headquarters) 
and for related expenses for the collective defense of the 
North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by section 2806 of 
title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $197,414,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
$273,236,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014: 
Provided, That the amount appropriated in this paragraph shall 
be for the projects and activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the heading ``Family Housing Construction, 
Army'' in the table entitled ``Military Construction'' in the 
explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation 
and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance 
premiums, as authorized by law, $523,418,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
Corps for construction, including acquisition, replacement, 
addition, expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized 
by law, $146,569,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2014:  Provided, That the amount appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be for the projects and activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the heading ``Family Housing Construction, Navy 
and Marine Corps'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
Corps for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, 
and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $368,540,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
$66,101,000, to remain available until September 30, 2014:  
Provided, That the amount appropriated in this paragraph shall 
be for the projects and activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the heading ``Family Housing Construction, Air 
Force'' in the table entitled ``Military Construction'' in the 
explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, 
minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $502,936,000.

               Family Housing Construction, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments) for construction, including acquisition, 
replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and alteration, as 
authorized by law, $2,859,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2014:  Provided, That the amount appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be for the projects and activities, and in 
the amounts, specified under the heading ``Family Housing 
Construction, Defense-Wide'' in the table entitled ``Military 
Construction'' in the explanatory statement of managers to 
accompany this Act.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments) for operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor 
construction, as authorized by law, $49,214,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
Fund, $2,600,000, to remain available until expended, for 
family housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 
of title 10, United States Code, providing alternative means of 
acquiring and improving military family housing and supporting 
facilities.

                       Homeowners Assistance Fund

    For the Homeowners Assistance Fund established by section 
1013 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374), as amended by section 1001 of 
division A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-5; 123 Stat. 194), $323,225,000, to remain 
available until expended.

          Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of construction, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for the destruction of the United States stockpile of 
lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 
1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 
U.S.C. 1521), and for the destruction of other chemical warfare 
materials that are not in the chemical weapon stockpile, as 
currently authorized by law, $151,541,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2014, which shall be only for the Assembled 
Chemical Weapons Alternatives program: Provided, That the 
amount appropriated in this paragraph shall be for the projects 
and activities, and in the amounts, specified under the 
headings ``Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-
Wide'' in the table entitled ``Military Construction'' in the 
explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
Account 1990, established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Defense 
Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
$496,768,000, to remain available until expended.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
Account 2005, established by section 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense 
Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
$7,455,498,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to 
obligating an amount for a construction project that exceeds or 
reduces the amount identified for that project in the most 
recently submitted budget request for this account by 20 
percent or $2,000,000, whichever is less: Provided further, 
That the previous proviso shall not apply to projects costing 
less than $5,000,000, except for those projects not previously 
identified in any budget submission for this account and 
exceeding the minor construction threshold under section 2805 
of title 10, United States Code.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee 
contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, 
to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, 
without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of 
Defense setting forth the reasons therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor 
vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the 
construction of access roads as authorized by section 210 of 
title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized therein 
are certified as important to the national defense by the 
Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to begin construction of new bases in the United 
States for which specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in excess 
of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army Corps of 
Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: 
(1) where there is a determination of value by a Federal court; 
(2) purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or the 
designee of the Attorney General; (3) where the estimated value 
is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise determined by the 
Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site 
preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
except housing for which funds have been made available in 
annual Acts making appropriations for military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title 
for minor construction may be used to transfer or relocate any 
activity from one base or installation to another, without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used for the procurement of steel for any construction 
project or activity for which American steel producers, 
fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity 
to compete for such steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense for military construction or family housing during the 
current fiscal year may be used to pay real property taxes in 
any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to initiate a new installation overseas without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated 
by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be 
accomplished in Japan, in any North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization member country, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Sea, unless such contracts are awarded to United States 
firms or United States firms in joint venture with host nation 
firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title 
for military construction in the United States territories and 
possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Sea, may be used to award any 
contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a 
foreign contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be 
applicable to contract awards for which the lowest responsive 
and responsible bid of a United States contractor exceeds the 
lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign contractor 
by greater than 20 percent: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible 
bid is submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense is to inform the 
appropriate committees of both Houses of Congress, including 
the Committees on Appropriations, of the plans and scope of any 
proposed military exercise involving United States personnel 30 
days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for 
construction, either temporary or permanent, are anticipated to 
exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Not more than 20 percent of the funds made 
available in this title which are limited for obligation during 
the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last two 
months of the fiscal year.
    Sec. 115.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
for construction in prior years shall be available for 
construction authorized for each such military department by 
the authorizations enacted into law during the current session 
of Congress.
    Sec. 116.  For military construction or family housing 
projects that are being completed with funds otherwise expired 
or lapsed for obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used 
to pay the cost of associated supervision, inspection, 
overhead, engineering and design on those projects and on 
subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
funds made available to a military department or defense agency 
for the construction of military projects may be obligated for 
a military construction project or contract, or for any portion 
of such a project or contract, at any time before the end of 
the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds 
for such project were made available, if the funds obligated 
for such project: (1) are obligated from funds available for 
military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which 
the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.
    Sec. 118. (a) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, by February 15 of 
each year, an annual report in unclassified and, if necessary, 
classified form, on actions taken by the Department of Defense 
and the Department of State during the previous fiscal year to 
encourage host countries to assume a greater share of the 
common defense burden of such countries and the United States.
    (b) The report under subsection (a) shall include a 
description of--
            (1) attempts to secure cash and in-kind 
        contributions from host countries for military 
        construction projects;
            (2) attempts to achieve economic incentives offered 
        by host countries to encourage private investment for 
        the benefit of the United States Armed Forces;
            (3) attempts to recover funds due to be paid to the 
        United States by host countries for assets deeded or 
        otherwise imparted to host countries upon the cessation 
        of United States operations at military installations;
            (4) the amount spent by host countries on defense, 
        in dollars and in terms of the percent of gross 
        domestic product (GDP) of the host country; and
            (5) for host countries that are members of the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the amount 
        contributed to NATO by host countries, in dollars and 
        in terms of the percent of the total NATO budget.
    (c) In this section, the term ``host country'' means other 
member countries of NATO, Japan, South Korea, and United States 
allies bordering the Arabian Sea.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 119.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense, proceeds deposited to 
the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by 
section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and 
Base Closure and Realignment Act (10 U.S.C. 2687 note) pursuant 
to section 207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may be transferred to the 
account established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Defense Base 
Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), to 
be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as that account.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 
days for a notification provided in an electronic medium 
pursuant to sections 480 and 2883, of title 10, United States 
Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress, such additional amounts as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: (1) the Department 
of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from amounts 
appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and 
for the same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to 
the Fund; or (2) the Department of Defense Military 
Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from amounts 
appropriated for construction of military unaccompanied housing 
in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes and for the same period of 
time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be 
available to cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan 
guarantees issued by the Department of Defense pursuant to the 
provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and 
improving military family housing, military unaccompanied 
housing, and supporting facilities.
    Sec. 121. (a) Not later than 60 days before issuing any 
solicitation for a contract with the private sector for 
military family housing the Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the notice described 
in subsection (b).
    (b)(1) A notice referred to in subsection (a) is a notice 
of any guarantee (including the making of mortgage or rental 
payments) proposed to be made by the Secretary to the private 
party under the contract involved in the event of--
            (A) the closure or realignment of the installation 
        for which housing is provided under the contract;
            (B) a reduction in force of units stationed at such 
        installation; or
            (C) the extended deployment overseas of units 
        stationed at such installation.
    (2) Each notice under this subsection shall specify the 
nature of the guarantee involved and assess the extent and 
likelihood, if any, of the liability of the Federal Government 
with respect to the guarantee.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 122.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense, amounts may be 
transferred from the accounts established by sections 
2906(a)(1) and 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), to the fund 
established by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and 
Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay 
for expenses associated with the Homeowners Assistance Program 
incurred under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred 
shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 123.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available in this title for operation and 
maintenance of family housing shall be the exclusive source of 
funds for repair and maintenance of all family housing units, 
including general or flag officer quarters: Provided, That not 
more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for the 
maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, except 
that an after-the-fact notification shall be submitted if the 
limitation is exceeded solely due to costs associated with 
environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission: Provided 
further, That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is 
to report annually to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress all operation and maintenance expenditures 
for each individual general or flag officer quarters for the 
prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 124.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement 
Account established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 
10, United States Code, are appropriated and shall be available 
until expended for the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) 
of such section or until transferred pursuant to subsection 
(i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 125.  None of the funds made available in this title, 
or in any Act making appropriations for military construction 
which remain available for obligation, may be obligated or 
expended to carry out a military construction, land 
acquisition, or family housing project at or for a military 
installation approved for closure, or at a military 
installation for the purposes of supporting a function that has 
been approved for realignment to another installation, in 2005 
under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 
(part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 
note), unless such a project at a military installation 
approved for realignment will support a continuing mission or 
function at that installation or a new mission or function that 
is planned for that installation, or unless the Secretary of 
Defense certifies that the cost to the United States of 
carrying out such project would be less than the cost to the 
United States of cancelling such project, or if the project is 
at an active component base that shall be established as an 
enclave or in the case of projects having multi-agency use, 
that another Government agency has indicated it will assume 
ownership of the completed project. The Secretary of Defense 
may not transfer funds made available as a result of this 
limitation from any military construction project, land 
acquisition, or family housing project to another account or 
use such funds for another purpose or project without the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress. This section shall not apply to military construction 
projects, land acquisition, or family housing projects for 
which the project is vital to the national security or the 
protection of health, safety, or environmental quality: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees within seven days of a 
decision to carry out such a military construction project.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 126.  During the 5-year period after appropriations 
available in this Act to the Department of Defense for military 
construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have expired for obligation, upon a determination 
that such appropriations will not be necessary for the 
liquidation of obligations or for making authorized adjustments 
to such appropriations for obligations incurred during the 
period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, 
Defense'', to be merged with and to be available for the same 
time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred.
    Sec. 127.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title may be used for any action that is 
related to or promotes the expansion of the boundaries or size 
of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site, Colorado.
    Sec. 128.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
in an account funded under the headings in this title may be 
transferred among projects and activities within the account in 
accordance with the reprogramming guidelines for military 
construction and family housing construction contained in the 
explanatory statement of managers to accompany this Act and in 
the guidance for military construction reprogrammings and 
notifications contained in Department of Defense Financial 
Management Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of 
December 1996, as in effect on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 129.  Of the funds made available in this title, the 
following accounts are hereby reduced in the following amounts 
to reflect adjusted inflation and bid savings projections: 
``Military Construction, Army'', $230,000,000; ``Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', $235,000,000; and 
``Military Construction, Air Force'', $64,091,000.
    Sec. 130.  Of the funds made available under the following 
headings in Public Law 110-329, the following amounts 
associated with unobligated balances are hereby rescinded: 
``Military Construction, Army'', $33,000,000; ``Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', $51,468,000; ``Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'', $93,268,000; ``Military 
Construction, Army National Guard'', $33,000,000; and 
``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $7,000,000.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as 
authorized by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, 
and 61 of title 38, United States Code; pension benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, 
and 61 of title 38, United States Code; and burial benefits, 
the Reinstated Entitlement Program for Survivors, emergency and 
other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service credits and 
certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life 
insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV 
of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et 
seq.) and for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 
1312, 1977, and 2106, and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of 
title 38, United States Code, $47,396,106,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed 
$29,283,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading shall 
be reimbursed to ``General operating expenses'', ``Medical 
support and compliance'', and ``Information technology 
systems'' for necessary expenses in implementing the provisions 
of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of title 38, United States Code, the 
funding source for which is specifically provided as the 
``Compensation and pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, 
That such sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient 
basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical care collections fund'' 
to augment the funding of individual medical facilities for 
nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits 
to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 
31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code, $9,232,369,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That expenses for rehabilitation program 
services and assistance which the Secretary is authorized to 
provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), 
and (11) of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life 
insurance, servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans 
insurance, and veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized 
by title 38, United States Code, chapters 19 and 21, 
$49,288,000, to remain available until expended.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as 
may be necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 
subchapters I through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United 
States Code: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 2010, within the resources available, not to exceed 
$500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans are authorized 
for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $165,082,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $29,000, as authorized by 
chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code: Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans not to exceed $2,298,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
out the direct loan program, $328,000, which may be paid to the 
appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan 
program authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, 
United States Code, $664,000.

  guaranteed transitional housing loans for homeless veterans program 
                                account

    For the administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
transitional housing loan program authorized by subchapter VI 
of chapter 20 of title 38, United States Code, not to exceed 
$750,000 of the amounts appropriated by this Act for ``General 
operating expenses'' and ``Medical support and compliance'' may 
be expended.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by 
law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
veterans described in section 1705(a) of title 38, United 
States Code, including care and treatment in facilities not 
under the jurisdiction of the Department, and including medical 
supplies and equipment, food services, and salaries and 
expenses of health care employees hired under title 38, United 
States Code, and aid to State homes as authorized by section 
1741 of title 38, United States Code; $71,843,500,000, plus 
reimbursements, of which $37,136,000,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2010, and shall remain available until September 
30, 2011: Provided, That, of the amount made available under 
this heading for fiscal year 2010, not to exceed $1,015,000,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a priority for 
the provision of medical treatment for veterans who have 
service-connected disabilities, lower income, or have special 
needs: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall give 
priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to 
veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of 
prescription drugs from Veterans Health Administration 
facilities to enrolled veterans with privately written 
prescriptions based on requirements established by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That the implementation of the 
program described in the previous proviso shall incur no 
additional cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided 
further, That for the Department of Defense/Department of 
Veterans Affairs Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as 
authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, 
a minimum of $15,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, United 
States Code.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the 
medical, hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, 
supply, and research activities, as authorized by law; 
administrative expenses in support of capital policy 
activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the 
Department as authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 
U.S.C. 2651 et seq.); $10,237,000,000, plus reimbursements, of 
which $5,307,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2010, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, 
That, of the amount made available under this heading for 
fiscal year 2010, not to exceed $145,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2011.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities and other 
necessary facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for 
administrative expenses in support of planning, design, project 
management, real property acquisition and disposition, 
construction, and renovation of any facility under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; for oversight, 
engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the 
jurisdiction of the Department, not otherwise provided for, 
either by contract or by the hire of temporary employees and 
purchase of materials; for leases of facilities; and for 
laundry services, $10,599,000,000, plus reimbursements, of 
which $5,740,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2010, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, 
That, of the amount made available under this heading for 
fiscal year 2010, not to exceed $145,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided further, That, of 
the amount available for fiscal year 2010, $130,000,000 for 
non-recurring maintenance shall be allocated in a manner not 
subject to the Veterans Equitable Resource Allocation.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical 
and prosthetic research and development as authorized by 
chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code, $581,000,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall remain available until September 30, 
2011.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery 
Administration for operations and maintenance, not otherwise 
provided for, including uniforms or allowances therefor; 
cemeterial expenses as authorized by law; purchase of one 
passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial operations; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
National Cemetery Administration, $250,000,000, of which not to 
exceed $24,200,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2011.

                      Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including 
administrative expenses in support of Department-Wide capital 
planning, management and policy activities, uniforms, or 
allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services 
Administration for security guard services, and the Department 
of Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, 
$2,086,707,000: Provided, That expenses for services and 
assistance authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of section 3104(a) of title 38, United States Code, that the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines are necessary to 
enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent feasible, 
to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily 
living, shall be charged to this account: Provided further, 
That the Veterans Benefits Administration shall be funded at 
not less than $1,689,207,000: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, not to exceed 
$111,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided further, That from the funds made available under this 
heading, the Veterans Benefits Administration may purchase (on 
a one-for-one replacement basis only) up to two passenger motor 
vehicles for use in operations of that Administration in 
Manila, Philippines.

                     information technology systems

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems 
and telecommunications support, including developmental 
information systems and operational information systems; for 
pay and associated costs; and for the capital asset acquisition 
of information technology systems, including management and 
related contractual costs of said acquisitions, including 
contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $3,307,000,000, 
plus reimbursements, shall remain available until September 30, 
2011: Provided, That none of the funds made available under 
this heading may be obligated until the Department of Veterans 
Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress, and such Committees approve, a plan for 
expenditure that: (1) meets the capital planning and investment 
control review requirements established by the Office of 
Management and Budget; (2) complies with the Department of 
Veterans Affairs enterprise architecture; (3) conforms with an 
established enterprise life cycle methodology; and (4) complies 
with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and 
systems acquisition management practices of the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a reprogramming base 
letter which sets forth, by project, the operations and 
maintenance costs, with salary expenses separately designated, 
and development costs to be carried out utilizing amounts made 
available under this heading: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $800,485,000 may not 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs or the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress a certification of the amounts, in 
parts or in full, to be obligated and expended for each 
development project.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
to include information technology, in carrying out the 
provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), $109,000,000, of which $6,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2011.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of 
title 38, United States Code, including planning, architectural 
and engineering services, construction management services, 
maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system 
construction costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated 
cost of a project is more than the amount set forth in section 
8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, or where funds 
for a project were made available in a previous major project 
appropriation, $1,194,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $16,000,000 shall be to make reimbursements 
as provided in section 13 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 
(41 U.S.C. 612) for claims paid for contract disputes: 
Provided, That except for advance planning activities, 
including needs assessments which may or may not lead to 
capital investments, and other capital asset management related 
activities, including portfolio development and management 
activities, and investment strategy studies funded through the 
advance planning fund and the planning and design activities 
funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and funds 
provided for the purchase of land for the National Cemetery 
Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of 
the funds made available under this heading shall be used for 
any project which has not been approved by the Congress in the 
budgetary process: Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading for fiscal year 2010, for each approved 
project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a 
construction documents contract by September 30, 2010; and (2) 
by the awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 
2011: Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall promptly submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress a written report on any approved major 
construction project for which obligations are not incurred 
within the time limitations established above: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$933,030,000 shall be for the projects and activities, and in 
the amounts, specified under this heading in the explanatory 
statement of managers to accompany this Act.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, including planning and assessments of needs which may 
lead to capital investments, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs 
associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or 
for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406, 
8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, 8122, and 8162 of title 38, 
United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project is 
equal to or less than the amount set forth in section 
8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, $703,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, along with unobligated 
balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project 
where the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount 
set forth in such section: Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the 
nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of 
the Department which are necessary because of loss or damage 
caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) 
temporary measures necessary to prevent or to minimize further 
loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State 
nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, 
or alter existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary 
facilities in State homes, for furnishing care to veterans as 
authorized by sections 8131 through 8137 of title 38, United 
States Code, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          grants for construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States in establishing, expanding, or 
improving State veterans cemeteries as authorized by section 
2408 of title 38, United States Code, $46,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2010 for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' may be transferred as 
necessary to any other of the mentioned appropriations: 
Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make 
the transfer and such Committees issue an approval, or absent a 
response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2010, in this Act or any other 
Act, under the ``Medical services'', ``Medical support and 
compliance'', and ``Medical facilities'' accounts may be 
transferred among the accounts: Provided, That any transfers 
between the ``Medical services'' and ``Medical support and 
compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total amount 
appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take 
place subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer: Provided 
further, That any transfers between the ``Medical services'' 
and ``Medical support and compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 
percent, or exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal 
year, may take place only after the Secretary requests from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued: 
Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval 
is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for 
salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; lease of a facility or land or 
both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by 
sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, major projects'', and 
``Construction, minor projects'') shall be available for the 
purchase of any site for or toward the construction of any new 
hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
available for hospitalization or examination of any persons 
(except beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or 
examination under the laws providing such benefits to veterans, 
and persons receiving such treatment under sections 7901 
through 7904 of title 5, United States Code, or the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the cost of such 
hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' shall be available for 
payment of prior year accrued obligations required to be 
recorded by law against the corresponding prior year accounts 
within the last quarter of fiscal year 2009.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior 
year appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 
3334, and 3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that 
if such obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be 
payable only from ``Compensation and pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
during fiscal year 2010, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall, from the National Service Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1920 of title 38, United States Code, the Veterans' 
Special Life Insurance Fund under section 1923 of title 38, 
United States Code, and the United States Government Life 
Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United States 
Code, reimburse the ``General operating expenses'' and 
``Information technology systems'' accounts for the cost of 
administration of the insurance programs financed through those 
accounts: Provided, That reimbursement shall be made only from 
the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance program 
during fiscal year 2010 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially 
determined reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That 
if the cost of administration of such an insurance program 
exceeds the amount of surplus earnings accumulated in that 
program, reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such 
surplus earnings: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
determine the cost of administration for fiscal year 2010 which 
is properly allocable to the provision of each such insurance 
program and to the provision of any total disability income 
insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease 
proceeds to reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that 
account during a prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use 
lease services, may be obligated during the fiscal year in 
which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for 
salaries and other administrative expenses shall also be 
available to reimburse the Office of Resolution Management of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Office of Employment 
Discrimination Complaint Adjudication under section 319 of 
title 38, United States Code, for all services provided at 
rates which will recover actual costs but not exceed 
$35,257,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and 
$3,287,000 for the Office of Employment and Discrimination 
Complaint Adjudication: Provided, That payments may be made in 
advance for services to be furnished based on estimated costs: 
Provided further, That amounts received shall be credited to 
the ``General operating expenses'' and ``Information technology 
systems'' accounts for use by the office that provided the 
service.
    Sec. 211.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
available to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental cost is more than $1,000,000, unless 
the Secretary submits a report which the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress approve within 30 
days following the date on which the report is received.
    Sec. 212.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall be available for hospital care, nursing home care, or 
medical services provided to any person under chapter 17 of 
title 38, United States Code, for a non-service-connected 
disability described in section 1729(a)(2) of such title, 
unless that person has disclosed to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may require, current, 
accurate third-party reimbursement information for purposes of 
section 1729 of such title: Provided, That the Secretary may 
recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from 
any person who does not make such disclosure as required: 
Provided further, That any amounts so recovered for care or 
services provided in a prior fiscal year may be obligated by 
the Secretary during the fiscal year in which amounts are 
received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
proceeds or revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing 
activities (including disposal) may be deposited into the 
``Construction, major projects'' and ``Construction, minor 
projects'' accounts and be used for construction (including 
site acquisition and disposition), alterations, and 
improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or 
for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as 
realized are in addition to the amount provided for in 
``Construction, major projects'' and ``Construction, minor 
projects''.
    Sec. 214.  Amounts made available under ``Medical 
services'' are available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, 
        supplies, and equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and 
        other expenses incidental to funerals and burials for 
        beneficiaries receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, 
United States Code, may be transferred to ``Medical services'', 
to remain available until expended for the purposes of that 
account.
    Sec. 216.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Indian tribes and tribal organizations which 
are party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian 
Health Service, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations 
serving rural Alaska which have entered into contracts with the 
Indian Health Service under the Indian Self Determination and 
Educational Assistance Act, to provide healthcare, including 
behavioral health and dental care. The Secretary shall require 
participating veterans and facilities to comply with all 
appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the 
Secretary. The term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands 
sited within the external boundaries of the Alaska Native 
regions specified in sections 7(a)(1)-(4) and (7)-(12) of the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
1606), and those lands within the Alaska Native regions 
specified in sections 7(a)(5) and 7(a)(6) of the Alaska Native 
Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), which are 
not within the boundaries of the Municipality of Anchorage, the 
Fairbanks North Star Borough, the Kenai Peninsula Borough or 
the Matanuska Susitna Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 
of title 38, United States Code, may be transferred to the 
``Construction, major projects'' and ``Construction, minor 
projects'' accounts, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to implement any policy prohibiting the Directors 
of the Veterans Integrated Services Networks from conducting 
outreach or marketing to enroll new veterans within their 
respective Networks.
    Sec. 219.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
a quarterly report on the financial status of the Veterans 
Health Administration.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical 
services'', ``Medical support and compliance'', ``Medical 
facilities'', ``General operating expenses'', and ``National 
Cemetery Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 2010, may be 
transferred to or from the ``Information technology systems'' 
account: Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to 
make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 221.  Amounts made available for the ``Information 
technology systems'' account may be transferred between 
projects: Provided, That no project may be increased or 
decreased by more than $1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a 
request to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, or 
absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.
    Sec. 222. (a) Upon a determination by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs that such action is in the national interest, 
and will have a direct benefit for veterans through increased 
access to treatment, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
transfer not more than $5,000,000 to the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services for the Graduate Psychology Education 
Program, which includes treatment of veterans, to support 
increased training of psychologists skilled in the treatment of 
post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, and 
related disorders.
    (b) The Secretary of Health and Human Services may only use 
funds transferred under this section for the purposes described 
in subsection (a).
    (c) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify Congress 
of any such transfer of funds under this section.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent 
with--
            (1) section 842 of the Transportation, Treasury, 
        Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the 
        District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 
        2506); or
            (2) section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States 
        Code.
    Sec. 224.  Of the amounts made available to the Department 
of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2010, in this Act or any 
other Act, under the ``Medical facilities'' account for non-
recurring maintenance, not more than 20 percent of the funds 
made available shall be obligated during the last 2 months of 
that fiscal year: Provided, That the Secretary may waive this 
requirement after providing written notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 225.  Section 1925(d)(3) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``appropriation `General Operating 
Expenses, Department of Veterans Affairs''' and inserting 
``appropriations for `General Operating Expenses and 
Information Technology Systems, Department of Veterans 
Affairs'''.
    Sec. 226.  Section 1922(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``administrative costs to the Government 
for the costs of'' and inserting ``administrative support 
financed by the appropriations for `General Operating Expenses, 
Department of Veterans Affairs' and `Information Technology 
Systems, Department of Veterans Affairs' for''.
    Sec. 227. (a) Effective October 1, 2010, the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center located in Lake County, 
Illinois, shall be known and designated as the ``Captain James 
A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center''.
    (b) Any reference to the medical center referred to in 
subsection (a) in any law, regulation, map, document, record, 
or other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a 
reference to the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
Center.
    Sec. 228.  Section 315(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``December 31, 2009'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2010''.
    Sec. 229.  Section 1714(c) of title 38, United States Code 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the 
        end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) service dogs trained for the aid of persons 
        with mental illnesses, including post-traumatic stress 
        disorder, to veterans with such illnesses who are 
        enrolled under section 1705 of this title.''.
    Sec. 230. (a) The Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center in Louisville, Kentucky, and any successor to such 
medical center, shall after the date of the enactment of this 
Act be known and designated as the ``Robley Rex Department of 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center''.
    (b) Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States to the medical 
center referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to be 
a reference to the Robley Rex Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center.
    Sec. 231. (a) Section 2703(b) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and 
Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 469), 
as amended by section 231 of the Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009 
(division E of Public Law 110-329; 122 Stat. 3713), is further 
amended by inserting after ``the City of Gulfport'' the 
following: ``, or its urban renewal agency,''.
    (b) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall take 
appropriate actions to modify the quitclaim deeds executed to 
effectuate the conveyance authorized by section 2703 of the 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the 
Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006, in order to 
accurately reflect and memorialize the amendment made by 
subsection (a).
    Sec. 232.  Of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this title, the Secretary may execute $5,000,000 
for cooperative agreements with State and local government 
entities or their designees with a demonstrated record of 
serving veterans to conduct outreach to ensure that veterans in 
underserved areas receive the care and benefits for which they 
are eligible.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
American Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition 
of land or interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and 
repair of uniforms for caretakers of national cemeteries and 
monuments outside of the United States and its territories and 
possessions; rent of office and garage space in foreign 
countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement basis only) and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and insurance 
of official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required 
by law of such countries, $62,675,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
American Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be 
necessary, to remain available until expended, for purposes 
authorized by section 2109 of title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United 
States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by 
sections 7251 through 7298 of title 38, United States Code, 
$27,115,000, of which $1,820,000 shall be available for the 
purpose of providing financial assistance as described, and in 
accordance with the process and reporting procedures set forth, 
under this heading in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for 
maintenance, operation, and improvement of Arlington National 
Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, 
including the purchase of two passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, $39,850,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
available under this heading shall be for construction of a 
perimeter wall at Arlington National Cemetery. In addition, 
such sums as may be necessary for parking maintenance, repairs 
and replacement, to be derived from the Lease of Department of 
Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies account.
    Funds appropriated under this Act may be provided to 
Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of the 
federally-owned water main at Arlington National Cemetery 
making additional land available for ground burials.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home 
to operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
Washington, District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home--Gulfport, Mississippi, to be paid from funds 
available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, 
$134,000,000, of which $72,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction and renovation of the physical plants 
at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, District of 
Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Army'', $924,484,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2012: Provided, That the amount appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be for the projects and activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the headings ``Army'' in the table entitled 
``Overseas Contingency Operations'' in the explanatory 
statement of managers to accompany this Act.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
Force'', $474,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2012: Provided, That the amount appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be for the projects and activities, and in the amounts, 
specified under the headings ``Air Force'' in the table 
entitled ``Overseas Contingency Operations'' in the explanatory 
statement of managers to accompany this Act.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 401.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this title are designated as being for overseas deployments 
and other activities pursuant to sections 401(c)(4) and 
423(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
2010 for pay raises for programs funded by this Act shall be 
absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for any program, project, or activity, when it is made 
known to the Federal entity or official to which the funds are 
made available that the program, project, or activity is not in 
compliance with any Federal law relating to risk assessment, 
the protection of private property rights, or unfunded 
mandates.
    Sec. 504.  No part of any funds appropriated in this Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than 
for normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, 
for publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, 
distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or film presentation designed 
to support or defeat legislation pending before Congress, 
except in presentation to Congress itself.
    Sec. 505.  All departments and agencies funded under this 
Act are encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory 
authorities and funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' 
technologies and procedures in the conduct of their business 
practices and public service activities.
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government except pursuant to a transfer made 
by, or transfer authority provided in, this or any other 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 507.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and 
notifications required by this Act shall be submitted to the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 508.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for a project or program named for an individual 
serving as a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the 
United States House of Representatives.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for the processing of new enhanced-use leases at the 
National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers located in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
    Sec. 510. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
the public website of that agency any report required to be 
submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the 
national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises 
        national security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 
45 days.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this 
division or any other division in this Act may be distributed 
to the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now 
(ACORN) or its subsidiaries.
     This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2010''.

   DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED 
                   PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the 
Foreign Service not otherwise provided for, $8,227,000,000, of 
which $1,586,214,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection (to 
remain available until expended): Provided, That the Secretary 
of State may transfer up to $137,600,000 of the total funds 
made available under this heading to any other appropriation of 
any department or agency of the United States, upon the 
concurrence of the head of such department or agency, to 
support operations in and assistance for Afghanistan and to 
carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be allocated as follows:
            (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for 
        training, human resources management, and salaries, 
        including employment without regard to civil service 
        and classification laws of persons on a temporary basis 
        (not to exceed $700,000), as authorized by section 801 
        of the United States Information and Educational 
        Exchange Act of 1948, $2,667,130,000 to remain 
        available until September 30, 2011, of which not less 
        than $138,075,000 shall be available only for public 
        diplomacy American salaries, and $220,840,000 is for 
        Worldwide Security Protection and shall remain 
        available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary 
        of State shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations, concurrent with the fiscal year 2011 
        congressional budget justification materials, a 
        strategy described in the joint explanatory statement 
        of the committee of conference (hereafter ``joint 
        explanatory statement'') accompanying this Act for 
        projected personnel requirements for the United States 
        Department of State over the next 3 fiscal years.
            (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for 
        the regional bureaus of the Department of State and 
        overseas activities as authorized by law, 
        $2,495,158,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2011, of which not less than $381,800,000 shall be 
        available only for public diplomacy international 
        information programs.
            (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary 
        expenses for the functional bureaus of the Department 
        of State including representation to certain 
        international organizations in which the United States 
        participates pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to 
        the advice and consent of the Senate or specific Acts 
        of Congress, general administration, and arms control, 
        nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
        authorized, $892,012,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2011.
            (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for 
        security activities, $2,172,700,000, to remain 
        available until September 30, 2011, of which 
        $1,365,374,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection and 
        shall remain available until expended.
            (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to 
        amounts otherwise made available under this heading--
                    (A) not to exceed $1,653,305 shall be 
                derived from fees collected from other 
                executive agencies for lease or use of 
                facilities located at the International Center 
                in accordance with section 4 of the 
                International Center Act, and, in addition, as 
                authorized by section 5 of such Act, $490,000, 
                to be derived from the reserve authorized by 
                that section, to be used for the purposes set 
                out in that section;
                    (B) as authorized by section 810 of the 
                United States Information and Educational 
                Exchange Act, not to exceed $6,000,000, to 
                remain available until expended, may be 
                credited to this appropriation from fees or 
                other payments received from English teaching, 
                library, motion pictures, and publication 
                programs and from fees from educational 
                advising and counseling and exchange visitor 
                programs; and
                    (C) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be 
                derived from reimbursements, surcharges and 
                fees for use of Blair House facilities.
            (6) Transfer, reprogramming, and spending plan.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any provision of this 
                Act, funds may be reprogrammed within and 
                between subsections under this heading subject 
                to section 7015 of this Act.
                    (B) Of the amount made available under this 
                heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be 
                transferred to, and merged with, funds made 
                available by this Act under the heading 
                ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular 
                Service'', to be available only for emergency 
                evacuations and rewards, as authorized.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under this heading 
                are available for acquisition by exchange or 
                purchase of passenger motor vehicles as 
                authorized by law and, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
                1108(g), for the field examination of programs 
                and activities in the United States funded from 
                any account contained in this title.
                    (D) Not later than 45 days after the 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
                shall submit to the Committees on 
                Appropriations a report detailing planned 
                expenditures for funds appropriated under this 
                heading.

                   civilian stabilization initiative

    For necessary expenses to support, maintain, mobilize, and 
deploy a civilian response corps in coordination with the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and 
for related reconstruction and stabilization assistance to 
prevent or respond to conflict or civil strife in foreign 
countries or regions, or to enable transition from such strife, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That funds made available under this heading may be made 
available in fiscal year 2010 to provide administrative 
expenses for the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction 
and Stabilization: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law and following consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations, the President may exercise 
transfer authorities contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 for reconstruction and stabilization assistance managed by 
the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and 
Stabilization only to support an actively deployed Civilian 
Response Corps, subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be 
withheld from obligation until the Secretary of State reports 
to the Committees on Appropriations that the Department of 
State has signed a memorandum of understanding with the 
Department of Defense relating to the provision of airlift for 
deployment of Civilian Response Corps personnel and equipment: 
Provided further, That not later than 45 days after enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator 
shall submit a coordinated joint spending plan for funds made 
available under this heading and under the heading ``Civilian 
Stabilization Initiative'' in title II of this Act.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, 
$139,000,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized: Provided, That section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 
shall not apply to funds available under this heading.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$100,000,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post 
inspections, of which $23,000,000 shall be for the Special 
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction for reconstruction 
oversight, and $23,000,000 shall be for the Special Inspector 
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction for reconstruction 
oversight.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, 
as authorized, $635,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, may be credited to this appropriation 
from fees or other payments received from or in connection with 
English teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, 
and exchange visitor programs as authorized.

                       representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized, $8,175,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide for extraordinary protective 
services, as authorized, $28,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292-303), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for buildings that are 
owned or directly leased by the Department of State, 
renovating, in addition to funds otherwise available, the Harry 
S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic Security 
Construction Program as authorized, $876,850,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized, of which not to exceed 
$25,000 may be used for domestic and overseas representation as 
authorized: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of furniture, 
furnishings, or generators for other departments and agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $847,300,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That not later than 
45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations the proposed 
allocation of funds made available under this heading and the 
actual and anticipated proceeds of sales for all projects in 
fiscal year 2010.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to 
meet unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 may 
be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program Account'', 
subject to the same terms and conditions.

                    buying power maintenance account

    To offset adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange 
rates and/or overseas wage and price changes, as authorized by 
section 24(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(b)), $8,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                   repatriation loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $739,000, as authorized: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
out the direct loan program, $711,000, which may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs''.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations 
Act (Public Law 96-8), $21,174,000.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund, as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
annual obligations of membership in international multilateral 
organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the 
advice and consent of the Senate, conventions or specific Acts 
of Congress, $1,682,500,000: Provided, That the Secretary of 
State shall, at the time of the submission of the President's 
budget to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, transmit to the Committees on Appropriations the 
most recent biennial budget prepared by the United Nations for 
the operations of the United Nations: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance (or in an emergency, 
as far in advance as is practicable) of any United Nations 
action to increase funding for any United Nations program 
without identifying an offsetting decrease elsewhere in the 
United Nations budget: Provided further, That any payment of 
arrearages under this heading shall be directed toward 
activities that are mutually agreed upon by the United States 
and the respective international organization: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be available for a United States contribution to an 
international organization for the United States share of 
interest costs made known to the United States Government by 
such organization for loans incurred on or after October 1, 
1984, through external borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses 
of international peacekeeping activities directed to the 
maintenance or restoration of international peace and security, 
$2,125,000,000, of which 15 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available by this Act shall be obligated or expended for any 
new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission unless, at 
least 15 days in advance of voting for the new or expanded 
mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an 
emergency as far in advance as is practicable): (1) the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified of the estimated cost 
and length of the mission, the national interest that will be 
served, the planned exit strategy, and that the United Nations 
has taken appropriate measures to prevent United Nations 
employees, contractor personnel, and peacekeeping forces 
serving in the mission from trafficking in persons, exploiting 
victims of trafficking, or committing acts of illegal sexual 
exploitation, and to hold accountable individuals who engage in 
such acts while participating in the peacekeeping mission, 
including the prosecution in their home countries of such 
individuals in connection with such acts; and (2) notification 
pursuant to section 7015 of this Act is submitted, and the 
procedures therein followed, setting forth the source of funds 
that will be used to pay for the cost of the new or expanded 
mission: Provided further, That funds shall be available for 
peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary of State determines 
that American manufacturers and suppliers are not being given 
opportunities to provide equipment, services, and material for 
United Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those being 
given to foreign manufacturers and suppliers.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or 
specific Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and 
Mexico, and to comply with laws applicable to the United States 
Section, including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as 
follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
$33,000,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of 
authorized projects, $43,250,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties 
between the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and the 
Border Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by 
Public Law 103-182, $12,608,000: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading for the International Joint 
Commission, $9,000 may be made available for representation 
expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries 
commissions, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, 
$53,976,000: Provided, That the United States share of such 
expenses may be advanced to the respective commissions pursuant 
to 31 U.S.C. 3324: Provided further, That in addition to other 
funds available for such purposes, funds available under this 
heading may be used to make payments necessary to fulfill the 
United States' obligations under the Pacific Salmon Treaty.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, including the purchase, rent, 
construction, and improvement of facilities for radio and 
television transmission and reception and purchase, lease, and 
installation of necessary equipment for radio and television 
transmission and reception to Cuba, and to make and supervise 
grants for radio and television broadcasting to the Middle 
East, $733,788,000, of which not more than $5,500,000 may be 
made available for non-salary and benefits expenses for TV 
Marti broadcasts to Cuba: Provided, That of the total amount in 
this heading, not to exceed $16,000 may be used for official 
receptions within the United States as authorized, not to 
exceed $35,000 may be used for representation abroad as 
authorized, and not to exceed $39,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty: Provided further, That the authority provided by 
section 504(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 U.S.C. 6206 note) 
shall remain in effect through September 30, 2010: Provided 
further, That not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
Act, the BBG shall report to the Committees on Appropriations 
that all BBG language services and grantees, including the 
broadcasters to the Middle East, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, 
have processes and policies, including appropriate management 
and editorial controls, to require that programming abide by 
the standards and principles set forth in the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202(a) and 
(b)) and the relevant journalistic code of ethics, and not 
provide an open platform for terrorists or those who support 
terrorists: Provided further, That the BBG shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
determination by the Board that any of its broadcast entities, 
including its grantee organizations, was found to be in 
violation of the principles, standards, or journalistic code of 
ethics referenced in the previous proviso: Provided further, 
That in addition to funds made available under this heading, 
and notwithstanding any other provision of law, up to 
$2,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue from 
business ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts from cooperating 
international organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in receipts 
from privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the 
International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available until 
expended for carrying out authorized purposes.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of 
facilities for radio and television transmission and reception, 
and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for radio 
and television transmission and reception as authorized, 
$12,622,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

    For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The 
Asia Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $19,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of 
Peace, as authorized by the United States Institute of Peace 
Act, $49,220,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, 
of which up to $15,000,000 may be used for construction 
activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-
Western Dialogue Trust Fund, the total amount of the interest 
and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 
2010, to remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the 
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-
5205), all interest and earnings accruing to the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund on or before September 
30, 2010, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary or other compensation, or to enter into any contract 
providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in 
accordance with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative 
Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for Non-profit 
Organizations), including the restrictions on compensation for 
personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship 
Program, as authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), 
all interest and earnings accruing to the Israeli Arab 
Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 2010, to remain 
available until expended.

                            East-West Center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying 
out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical 
Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the 
Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between East and 
West in the State of Hawaii, $23,000,000: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary, or enter into any contract providing for the payment 
thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National 
Endowment for Democracy Act, $118,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $100,000,000 shall be allocated in the 
traditional and customary manner, including for the core 
institutes, and $18,000,000 shall be for democracy, human 
rights, and rule of law programs: Provided, That the President 
of the National Endowment for Democracy shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act a report on the proposed uses of 
funds under this heading on a regional and country basis.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Commission for the 
Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad, $635,000, as 
authorized by section 1303 of Public Law 99-83.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of 
the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 
105-292), $4,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011: Provided, That notwithstanding the expenditure limitation 
specified in section 208(c)(1) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 
6435a(c)(1)), the Commission may expend up to $250,000 of the 
funds made available under this heading to procure temporary 
and intermittent services under the authority of section 
3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, 
$2,610,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive 
Commission on the People's Republic of China, as authorized, 
$2,000,000, including not more than $3,000 for the purpose of 
official representation, to remain available until September 
30, 2011.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic 
and Security Review Commission, $3,500,000, including not more 
than $4,000 for the purpose of official representation, to 
remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That the 
Commission shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations a 
quarterly accounting of the cumulative balances of any 
unobligated funds that were received by the Commission during 
any previous fiscal year: Provided further, That section 308(e) 
of the United States-China Relations Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
6918(e)) (relating to the treatment of employees as 
Congressional employees), and section 309 of such Act (22 
U.S.C. 6919) (relating to printing and binding costs), shall 
apply to the Commission in the same manner as such section 
applies to the Congressional-Executive Commission on the 
People's Republic of China: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall comply with chapter 43 of title 5, United 
States Code, regarding the establishment and regular review of 
employee performance appraisals: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall comply with section 4505a of title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to limitations on payment of 
performance-based cash awards: Provided further, That 
compensation for the executive director of the Commission may 
not exceed the rate payable for level II of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, United States Code: 
Provided further, That travel by members and staff of the 
Commission shall be arranged and conducted under the rules and 
procedures applying to travel by members and staff of the House 
of Representatives.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$1,388,800,000, of which up to $105,000,000 may remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this heading and under the heading 
``Capital Investment Fund'' in this Act may be made available 
to finance the construction (including architect and 
engineering services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices 
for use by the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID), unless the USAID Administrator has 
identified such proposed construction (including architect and 
engineering services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices 
in a report submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at 
least 15 days prior to the obligation of funds for such 
purposes: Provided further, That the previous proviso shall not 
apply when the total cost of construction (including architect 
and engineering services), purchase, or long-term lease of 
offices does not exceed $1,000,000: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading that are available 
for capital investments related to the Development Leadership 
Initiative, up to $245,000,000 may remain available until 
September 30, 2014: Provided further, That the USAID 
Administrator shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, 
concurrent with the fiscal year 2011 congressional budget 
justification materials, a strategy described in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act for projected 
personnel requirements for USAID over the next 3 fiscal years: 
Provided further, That contracts or agreements entered into 
with funds appropriated under this heading may entail 
commitments for the expenditure of such funds through the 
following fiscal year: Provided further, That any decision to 
open a new USAID overseas mission or office or, except where 
there is a substantial security risk to mission personnel, to 
close or significantly reduce the number of personnel of any 
such mission or office, shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That the authority of sections 610 and 109 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be exercised by the 
Secretary of State to transfer funds appropriated to carry out 
chapter 1 of part I of such Act to ``Operating Expenses'' in 
accordance with the provisions of those sections: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated or made available under 
this heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 may be available for entertainment allowances, 
for USAID during the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That no such entertainment funds may be used for the purposes 
listed in section 7020 of this Act: Provided further, That 
appropriate steps shall be taken to assure that, to the maximum 
extent possible, United States-owned foreign currencies are 
utilized in lieu of dollars.

                   civilian stabilization initiative

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 667 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to support, maintain, 
mobilize, and deploy a Civilian Response Corps in coordination 
with the Department of State, and for related reconstruction 
and stabilization assistance to prevent or respond to conflict 
or civil strife in foreign countries or regions, or to enable 
transition from such strife, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the USAID 
Administrator shall submit a coordinated joint spending plan 
for funds made available under this heading and under the 
heading ``Civilian Stabilization Initiative'' in title I of 
this Act.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses for overseas construction and 
related costs, and for the procurement and enhancement of 
information technology and related capital investments, 
pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$185,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
more than $134,500,000 may be made available for the purpose of 
implementing the Capital Security Cost-Sharing Program: 
Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
obligation only pursuant to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $46,500,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011, which sum shall 
be available for the Office of Inspector General of the United 
States Agency for International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out 
the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for 
other purposes, to remain available until September 30, 2010, 
unless otherwise specified herein, as follows:

                    global health and child survival

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, for global health activities, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, $2,420,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2011, and which shall be 
apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID): Provided, That this amount 
shall be made available for such activities as: (1) child 
survival and maternal health programs; (2) immunization and 
oral rehydration programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water 
and sanitation programs which directly address the needs of 
mothers and children, and related education programs; (4) 
assistance for children displaced or orphaned by causes other 
than AIDS; (5) programs for the prevention, treatment, control 
of, and research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and 
other infectious diseases including neglected tropical 
diseases, and for assistance to communities severely affected 
by HIV/AIDS, including children infected or affected by AIDS; 
and (6) family planning/reproductive health: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this paragraph may be 
made available for nonproject assistance, except that funds may 
be made available for such assistance for ongoing health 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this paragraph, $78,000,000 should be made available for 
a United States contribution to the GAVI Alliance: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available in this Act nor 
any unobligated balances from prior appropriations Acts may be 
made available to any organization or program which, as 
determined by the President of the United States, supports or 
participates in the management of a program of coercive 
abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That 
any determination made under the previous proviso must be made 
no later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and must be accompanied by the evidence and criteria utilized 
to make the determination: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to pay for the 
performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions: Provided 
further, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
this Act may be used to lobby for or against abortion: Provided 
further, That in order to reduce reliance on abortion in 
developing nations, funds shall be available only to voluntary 
family planning projects which offer, either directly or 
through referral to, or information about access to, a broad 
range of family planning methods and services, and that any 
such voluntary family planning project shall meet the following 
requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the 
project shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other 
numerical targets, of total number of births, number of family 
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of 
family planning (this provision shall not be construed to 
include the use of quantitative estimates or indicators for 
budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the project shall not 
include payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or financial 
reward to: (A) an individual in exchange for becoming a family 
planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel for achieving a 
numerical target or quota of total number of births, number of 
family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method 
of family planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or 
benefit, including the right of access to participate in any 
program of general welfare or the right of access to health 
care, as a consequence of any individual's decision not to 
accept family planning services; (4) the project shall provide 
family planning acceptors comprehensible information on the 
health benefits and risks of the method chosen, including those 
conditions that might render the use of the method inadvisable 
and those adverse side effects known to be consequent to the 
use of the method; and (5) the project shall ensure that 
experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and medical 
procedures are provided only in the context of a scientific 
study in which participants are advised of potential risks and 
benefits; and, not less than 60 days after the date on which 
the USAID Administrator determines that there has been a 
violation of the requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), 
(3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or practice of 
violations of the requirements contained in paragraph (4) of 
this proviso, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations a report containing a description of such 
violation and the corrective action taken by the Agency: 
Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family 
planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of 
such applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to offer 
only natural family planning; and, additionally, all such 
applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this or any 
other Act authorizing or appropriating funds for the Department 
of State, foreign operations, and related programs, the term 
``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, 
shall not be construed to prohibit the provision, consistent 
with local law, of information or counseling about all 
pregnancy options: Provided further, That to the maximum extent 
practicable, taking into consideration cost, timely 
availability, and best health practices, funds appropriated in 
this Act or prior appropriations Acts that are made available 
for condom procurement should be made available for the 
procurement of condoms manufactured in the United States: 
Provided further, That information provided about the use of 
condoms as part of projects or activities that are funded from 
amounts appropriated by this Act shall be medically accurate 
and shall include the public health benefits and failure rates 
of such use.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the 
prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, HIV/
AIDS, $5,359,000,000, to remain available until expended, and 
which shall be apportioned directly to the Department of State: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this paragraph, 
not less than $750,000,000 shall be made available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except for the 
United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-25), as amended, for a 
United States contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria, and shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities: Provided further, That up to 5 percent of the 
aggregate amount of funds made available to the Global Fund in 
fiscal year 2010 may be made available to USAID for technical 
assistance related to the activities of the Global Fund: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
paragraph, up to $14,000,000 may be made available, in addition 
to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, for 
administrative expenses of the Office of the United States 
Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103, 105, 106, and sections 251 through 255, and 
chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$2,520,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less 
than $265,000,000 shall be made available for microenterprise 
and microfinance development programs for the poor, especially 
women: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, not less than $23,500,000 shall be made available 
for the American Schools and Hospitals Abroad program: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$10,000,000 shall be made available for cooperative development 
programs within the Office of Private and Voluntary 
Cooperation, United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID): Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by 
this Act, not less than $315,000,000 shall be made available 
for water and sanitation supply projects pursuant to the 
Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-121): Provided further, That the relevant bureaus and 
offices of USAID that support cross-cutting development 
programs shall coordinate such programs on a regular basis: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by title III 
of this Act, not less than $1,169,833,000 should be made 
available for food security and agricultural development 
programs, which may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law to address critical food shortages, of which 
$31,500,000 shall be made available for Collaborative Research 
Support Programs: Provided further, That prior to the 
obligation of funds pursuant to the previous proviso and after 
consultation with other relevant Federal departments and 
agencies, the Committees on Appropriations, and relevant 
nongovernmental organizations, the USAID Administrator shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations a strategy for 
achieving food security and agricultural development program 
goals: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading for food security and agricultural development 
programs, $10,000,000 shall be made available for a United 
States contribution to the endowment of the Global Crop 
Diversity Trust pursuant to section 3202 of Public Law 110-246: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $20,000,000 shall be made available for 
programs to improve women's leadership capacity in recipient 
countries.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
international disaster relief, rehabilitation, and 
reconstruction assistance, $845,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster 
rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance pursuant to 
section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $55,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to support transition to 
democracy and to long-term development of countries in crisis: 
Provided, That such support may include assistance to develop, 
strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions and processes, 
revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the peaceful 
resolution of conflict: Provided further, That the United 
States Agency for International Development shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days 
prior to beginning a new program of assistance: Provided 
further, That if the Secretary of State determines that it is 
important to the national interests of the United States to 
provide transition assistance in excess of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, up to $15,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for purposes 
of this heading and under the authorities applicable to funds 
appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made 
available subject to prior consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                          complex crises fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to enable the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), 
in consultation with the Secretary of State, to support 
programs and activities to prevent or respond to emerging or 
unforeseen complex crises overseas, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be made available on such terms and 
conditions as the USAID Administrator may determine, in 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for the 
purposes of preventing or responding to such crises, except 
that no funds shall be made available to respond to natural 
disasters: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be made available notwithstanding section 10 of 
Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956: Provided further, That the USAID 
Administrator may furnish assistance under this heading 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except sections 
7007, 7008, and 7018 of this Act and section 620J of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that such notifications shall be transmitted at least 5 
days in advance of the obligation of funds: Provided further, 
That the requirements of the previous proviso may be waived if 
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health 
or welfare: Provided further, That in case of any such waiver, 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations shall be 
provided as early as practicable, but in no event later than 3 
days after taking the action to which such notification 
requirement was applicable, in the context of the circumstances 
necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any such 
notification provided pursuant to such waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.

                      development credit authority

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided 
by the United States Agency for International Development, as 
authorized by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, up to $25,000,000 may be derived by transfer from 
funds appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of such Act 
and under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'': Provided, That funds provided under this 
paragraph and funds provided as a gift pursuant to section 
635(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made 
available only for micro and small enterprise programs, urban 
programs, and other programs which further the purposes of part 
I of such Act: Provided further, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such direct and guaranteed loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
as amended: Provided further, That funds made available by this 
paragraph may be used for the cost of modifying any such 
guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts, and funds used 
for such costs shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to 
general provisions applicable to the Development Credit 
Authority) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained 
in section 306 of H.R. 1486 as reported by the House Committee 
on International Relations on May 9, 1997, shall be applicable 
to direct loans and loan guarantees provided under this 
heading: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any portion of which is to be 
guaranteed, of up to $700,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
credit programs administered by the United States Agency for 
International Development, $8,600,000, which may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading 
``Operating Expenses'' in title II of this Act: Provided, That 
funds made available under this heading shall remain available 
until September 30, 2012.

                         economic support fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$6,337,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$250,000,000 shall be available only for assistance for Egypt, 
which sum shall be provided on a grant basis, and of which sum 
cash transfer assistance shall be provided with the 
understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic 
and democratic reforms which are additional to those which were 
undertaken in previous fiscal years: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading for assistance for 
Egypt, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for 
democracy, human rights and governance programs, and not less 
than $35,000,000 shall be made available for education 
programs, of which not less than $10,000,000 is for 
scholarships for Egyptian students with high financial need: 
Provided further, That $11,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
under this heading should be made available for assistance for 
Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, administrative support 
of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, and measures 
aimed at reunification of the island and designed to reduce 
tensions and promote peace and cooperation between the two 
communities on Cyprus: Provided further, That $12,000,000 of 
the funds made available for assistance for Lebanon under this 
heading shall be made available for educational scholarships 
for students in Lebanon with high financial need: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than $363,000,000 shall be made available only for 
assistance for Jordan: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading not more than $400,400,000 may 
be made available for assistance for the West Bank and Gaza, of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for administrative 
expenses of the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID), in addition to funds otherwise available 
for such purposes: Provided further, That not more than 
$150,000,000 of the funds provided for the West Bank and Gaza 
shall be for cash transfer assistance: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading that are made available 
for assistance for infrastructure projects in Pakistan shall be 
implemented in a manner consistent with section 507(6) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2467(6)): Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading for assistance for 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, assistance may be provided 
notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts assistance 
to foreign countries for cross border stabilization and 
development programs between Afghanistan and Pakistan or 
between either country and the Central Asian republics: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated by this Act for 
assistance for Afghanistan and Pakistan may be made available 
for government-to-government assistance only if the Secretary 
of State certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
Government of the United States and the government of the 
recipient country have agreed, in writing, to clear and 
achievable goals and objectives for the use of such funds, and 
have established mechanisms within each implementing agency to 
ensure that such funds are used for the purposes for which they 
were intended: Provided further, That any such cash transfer 
assistance shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of State should suspend any such cash transfer 
assistance to an implementing agency if the Secretary has 
credible evidence of misuse of such funds by any such agency: 
Provided further, That any decision to significantly modify the 
scope, objectives or implementation mechanisms of United States 
assistance programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan shall be subject 
to prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, except that 
the prior consultation requirement may be waived if it is 
determined that failure to do so would pose a substantial risk 
to human health or welfare: Provided further, That in case of 
any such waiver, notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations shall be provided as early as practicable, but 
in no event later than 3 days after taking the action to which 
such consultation requirement was applicable: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading for 
assistance for Pakistan, $2,000,000 shall be transferred to, 
and merged with, funds available under the heading 
``Administration of Foreign Affairs, Office of Inspector 
General'' for oversight of programs in Pakistan: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$209,790,000 shall be apportioned directly to USAID for 
alternative development/institution building programs in 
Colombia: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading that are available for assistance for 
Colombia, not less than $8,000,000 shall be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated under the heading ``Migration 
and Refugee Assistance'' and shall be made available only for 
assistance to nongovernmental and international organizations 
that provide assistance to Colombian refugees in neighboring 
countries.

                             democracy fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy 
globally, $120,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011, of which $70,000,000 shall be made available for the 
Human Rights and Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, 
Human Rights and Labor, Department of State, and $50,000,000 
shall be made available for the Office of Democracy and 
Governance of the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and 
Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for International 
Development.

                     international fund for ireland

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$17,000,000, which shall be available for the United States 
contribution to the International Fund for Ireland and shall be 
made available in accordance with the provisions of the Anglo-
Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-415): 
Provided, That such amount shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading shall remain available until September 30, 2011.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act, and 
the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, 
$741,632,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, 
which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, for assistance and for related programs for countries 
identified in section 3 of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 
3(c) of the SEED Act: Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be considered to be economic assistance 
under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for purposes of making 
available the administrative authorities contained in that Act 
for the use of economic assistance: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any provision of this or any other Act, funds 
appropriated in prior years under the headings ``Independent 
States of the Former Soviet Union'' and similar headings and 
``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'' and 
similar headings, and currencies generated by or converted from 
such funds, shall be available for use in any country for which 
funds are made available under this heading without regard to 
the geographic limitations of the heading under which such 
funds were originally appropriated: Provided further, That 
funds made available for the Southern Caucasus region may be 
used for confidence-building measures and other activities in 
furtherance of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, including 
in Nagorno-Karabakh: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading that are available for 
assistance for the Kyrgyz Republic, up to $11,500,000 shall be 
made available for the Joint Development Fund.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to 
enable the Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, 
a contribution to the International Committee of the Red Cross, 
assistance to refugees, including contributions to the 
International Organization for Migration and the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees, and other activities to meet 
refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses of personnel 
and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of 
title 5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; and services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $1,685,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for refugees resettling in Israel, and not less than 
$35,000,000 shall be made available to respond to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements of international and 
nongovernmental partners.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 2(c) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 
1962, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)), $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501-2523), including the purchase 
of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for 
administrative purposes for use outside of the United States, 
$400,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be used to pay for abortions: Provided further, 
That the Director of the Peace Corps may transfer to the 
Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 2515, an amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided 
further, That funds transferred pursuant to the previous 
proviso may not be derived from amounts made available for 
Peace Corps overseas operations: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $4,000 may 
be made available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, 
That any decision to open, close, significantly reduce, or 
suspend a domestic or overseas office or country program shall 
be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that prior consultation and regular notification 
procedures may be waived when there is a substantial security 
risk to volunteers or other Peace Corps personnel, pursuant to 
section 7015(e) of this Act: Provided further, That not later 
than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
submit a spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations on 
the proposed uses of funds under this heading: Provided 
further, That not later than 180 days after enactment of this 
Act, the Director shall, after consultation with the Committees 
on Appropriations, submit a report to the Committees that 
includes the findings of a comprehensive assessment of the 
current program model of the Peace Corps and a strategy for 
reforming and improving operations.

                    millennium challenge corporation

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Millennium Challenge Act of 2003, $1,105,000,000 to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, up to $95,000,000 may be 
available for administrative expenses of the Millennium 
Challenge Corporation (the Corporation): Provided further, That 
up to 10 percent of the funds appropriated under this heading 
may be made available to carry out the purposes of section 616 
of the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 for fiscal year 2010: 
Provided further, That section 605(e)(4) of the Millennium 
Challenge Act of 2003 shall apply to funds appropriated under 
this heading: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available for a Millennium Challenge 
Compact entered into pursuant to section 609 of the Millennium 
Challenge Act of 2003 only if such Compact obligates, or 
contains a commitment to obligate subject to the availability 
of funds and the mutual agreement of the parties to the Compact 
to proceed, the entire amount of the United States Government 
funding anticipated for the duration of the Compact: Provided 
further, That the Corporation should reimburse the United 
States Agency for International Development (USAID) for all 
expenses incurred by USAID with funds appropriated under this 
heading in assisting the Corporation in carrying out such Act, 
including administrative costs for compact development, 
negotiation, and implementation: Provided further, That the 
Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations not later than 15 
days prior to signing any new country compact or new threshold 
country program; terminating or suspending any country compact 
or threshold country program; or commencing negotiations for 
any new compact or threshold country program: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated by this Act or any prior Act 
appropriating funds for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs that are made available for a 
Millennium Challenge Compact and that are suspended or 
terminated by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to re-obligation: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act and 
prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs under this heading may 
be used for military assistance or military training, including 
for assistance for military or paramilitary purposes and for 
assistance to military forces: Provided further, That the terms 
and conditions of section 1105(c) of Public Law 111-32 shall 
apply to funds appropriated under this heading: Provided 
further, That a Millennium Challenge Corporation candidate 
country selected as an eligible country in fiscal year 2009 in 
accordance with section 607(c) of the Millennium Challenge Act 
of 2003 that is transitioning out of one of the income 
categories identified in subsections 606(a) and (b) shall 
retain its candidacy status at the lower income category for 
purposes of setting compact funding levels for the fiscal year 
of its transition and the two subsequent fiscal years: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
to exceed $100,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment allowances, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be 
available for entertainment allowances.

                       inter-american foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the 
Inter-American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of 
section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $23,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $2,000 
may be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances.

                     african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out title V of the 
International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 
(Public Law 96-533), $30,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That funds made available to 
grantees may be invested pending expenditure for project 
purposes when authorized by the Board of Directors of the 
Foundation: Provided further, That interest earned shall be 
used only for the purposes for which the grant was made: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the 
African Development Foundation Act, in exceptional 
circumstances the Board of Directors of the Foundation may 
waive the $250,000 limitation contained in that section with 
respect to a project and a project may exceed the limitation by 
up to $10,000 if the increase is due solely to foreign currency 
fluctuation: Provided further, That the Foundation shall 
provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations after each 
time such waiver authority is exercised.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 129 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $25,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2012, which shall be 
available notwithstanding any other provision of law.

                           debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan 
guarantees, as the President may determine, for which funds 
have been appropriated or otherwise made available for programs 
within the International Affairs Budget Function 150, including 
the cost of selling, reducing, or canceling amounts owed to the 
United States as a result of concessional loans made to 
eligible countries, pursuant to parts IV and V of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, of modifying concessional credit 
agreements with least developed countries, as authorized under 
section 411 of the Agricultural Trade Development and 
Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, of concessional loans, 
guarantees and credit agreements, as authorized under section 
572 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-461), and of 
canceling amounts owed, as a result of loans or guarantees made 
pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, by countries 
that are eligible for debt reduction pursuant to title V of 
H.R. 3425 as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public 
Law 106-113, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2012: Provided, That not less than $20,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be made available to 
carry out the provisions of part V of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961: Provided further, That amounts paid to the Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund may be used only to 
fund debt reduction under the enhanced HIPC initiative by--
            (1) the Inter-American Development Bank;
            (2) the African Development Fund;
            (3) the African Development Bank; and
            (4) the Central American Bank for Economic 
        Integration:

Provided further, That funds may not be paid to the HIPC Trust 
Fund for the benefit of any country if the Secretary of State 
has credible evidence that the central government of such 
country is engaged in a consistent pattern of gross violations 
of internationally recognized human rights or in military or 
civil conflict that undermines its ability to develop and 
implement measures to alleviate poverty and to devote adequate 
human and financial resources to that end: Provided further, 
That on the basis of final appropriations, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
concerning which countries and international financial 
institutions are expected to benefit from a United States 
contribution to the HIPC Trust Fund during the fiscal year: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations not less than 15 days 
in advance of the signature of an agreement by the United 
States to make payments to the HIPC Trust Fund of amounts for 
such countries and institutions: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Treasury may disburse funds designated for 
debt reduction through the HIPC Trust Fund only for the benefit 
of countries that--
            (1) have committed, for a period of 24 months, not 
        to accept new market-rate loans from the international 
        financial institution receiving debt repayment as a 
        result of such disbursement, other than loans made by 
        such institutions to export-oriented commercial 
        projects that generate foreign exchange which are 
        generally referred to as ``enclave'' loans; and
            (2) have documented and demonstrated their 
        commitment to redirect their budgetary resources from 
        international debt repayments to programs to alleviate 
        poverty and promote economic growth that are additional 
        to or expand upon those previously available for such 
        purposes:

Provided further, That any limitation of subsection (e) of 
section 411 of the Agricultural Trade Development and 
Assistance Act of 1954 shall not apply to funds appropriated 
under this heading: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading in this or any other 
appropriations Act shall be made available for Sudan or Burma 
unless the Secretary of the Treasury determines and notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations that a democratically elected 
government has taken office.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,597,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That during 
fiscal year 2010, the Department of State may also use the 
authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
without regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property 
from an agency of the United States Government for the purpose 
of providing it to a foreign country or international 
organization under chapter 8 of part I of that Act subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations not later 
than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
prior to the initial obligation of funds appropriated under 
this heading, a report on the proposed uses of all funds under 
this heading on a country-by-country basis for each proposed 
program, project, or activity: Provided further, That section 
482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That 
assistance provided with funds appropriated under this heading 
that is made available notwithstanding section 482(b) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made available subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 should be made 
available to combat piracy of United States copyrighted 
materials, consistent with the requirements of section 688(a) 
and (b) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2008 (division J of Public 
Law 110-161): Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading for assistance for Afghanistan 
may be made available for eradication programs through the 
aerial spraying of herbicides unless the Secretary of State 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
the President of Afghanistan has requested assistance for such 
aerial spraying programs for counternarcotics purposes: 
Provided further, That in the event the Secretary of State 
makes a determination pursuant to the previous proviso, the 
Secretary shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
prior to the obligation of funds for such eradication programs: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading for assistance for Colombia shall be made 
available for budget support or as cash payments: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be made available for assistance for the Bolivian 
military and police unless the Secretary of State determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
Government of Bolivia is investigating, prosecuting, and 
punishing military and police personnel who have been credibly 
alleged to have violated internationally recognized human 
rights.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-
terrorism, demining and related programs and activities, 
$754,000,000, to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-terrorism 
assistance, chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of 
the Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 for demining activities, the clearance of unexploded 
ordnance, the destruction of small arms, and related 
activities, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
including activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations, and section 301 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for a voluntary contribution to the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and for a United 
States contribution to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban 
Treaty Preparatory Commission: Provided, That of this amount 
not to exceed $75,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
may be made available for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament 
Fund, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to promote 
bilateral and multilateral activities relating to 
nonproliferation, disarmament and weapons destruction: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries 
other than the Independent States of the former Soviet Union 
and international organizations when it is in the national 
security interest of the United States to do so: Provided 
further, That funds made available for the Nonproliferation and 
Disarmament Fund shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available for the IAEA unless the 
Secretary of State determines that Israel is being denied its 
right to participate in the activities of that Agency: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
more than $500,000 may be made available for public-private 
partnerships for conventional weapons and mine action by grant, 
cooperative agreement or contract: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available for demining and related activities, 
not to exceed $700,000, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, may be used for administrative 
expenses related to the operation and management of the 
demining program: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading that are available for ``Anti-terrorism 
Assistance'' and ``Export Control and Border Security'' shall 
remain available until September 30, 2011.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$331,500,000: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
heading may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of such Act, 
to provide assistance to enhance the capacity of foreign 
civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to participate 
in peacekeeping operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, up to $102,000,000 may be made 
available for assistance for Somalia, of which up to 
$55,000,000 may be used to pay assessed expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities in Somalia: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than $26,000,000 shall be made available for a United 
States contribution to the Multinational Force and Observers 
mission in the Sinai: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or expended 
except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$108,000,000, of which up to $4,000,000 may remain available 
until expended and may only be provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided, That the civilian personnel for whom military 
education and training may be provided under this heading may 
include civilians who are not members of a government whose 
participation would contribute to improved civil-military 
relations, civilian control of the military, or respect for 
human rights: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading for assistance for Angola, Bangladesh, Cameroon, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Cote d'Ivoire, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, 
Kenya, Libya, Nepal, Nigeria, and Sri Lanka may only be 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations and any such notification shall 
include a detailed description of proposed activities: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
to exceed $55,000 may be available for entertainment 
allowances.

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President 
to carry out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act, $4,195,000,000: Provided, That to expedite the 
provision of assistance to foreign countries and international 
organizations, the Secretary of State, following consultation 
with the Committees on Appropriations and subject to the 
regular notification procedures of such Committees, may use the 
funds appropriated under this heading to procure defense 
articles and services to enhance the capacity of foreign 
security forces: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $2,220,000,000 
shall be available for grants only for Israel, and not less 
than $1,040,000,000 shall be made available for grants only for 
Egypt, including for border security programs and activities in 
the Sinai: Provided further, That the funds appropriated under 
this heading for assistance for Israel shall be disbursed 
within 30 days of the enactment of this Act: Provided further, 
That to the extent that the Government of Israel requests that 
funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for 
Israel under this heading shall, as agreed by the United States 
and Israel, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than $583,860,000 shall be available for the 
procurement in Israel of defense articles and defense services, 
including research and development: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading estimated to be outlayed 
for Egypt during fiscal year 2010 shall be transferred to an 
interest bearing account for Egypt in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York within 30 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$150,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Jordan: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not more than $55,000,000 shall be available for 
assistance for Colombia, of which up to $12,500,000 is 
available to support maritime interdiction and riverine 
operations: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $238,000,000 should be made 
available for assistance for Pakistan: Provided further, That 
in addition to the funds made available in the previous 
proviso, up to $60,000,000 of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act and prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated under this heading and made 
available for assistance for Pakistan, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
this heading shall be made available to support or continue any 
program initially funded under the authority of section 1206 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 
(Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3456) unless the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, has 
justified such program to the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading shall be nonrepayable 
notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be obligated upon apportionment in 
accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of title 31, United States 
Code, section 1501(a).
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall 
be available to finance the procurement of defense articles, 
defense services, or design and construction services that are 
not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export 
Control Act unless the foreign country proposing to make such 
procurements has first signed an agreement with the United 
States Government specifying the conditions under which such 
procurements may be financed with such funds: Provided, That 
all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 7015 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this heading may be made available for 
assistance for Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, 
Philippines, Indonesia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Haiti, 
Guatemala, Ethiopia, Cambodia, Kenya, Chad, and the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo except pursuant to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, and may include activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations: Provided 
further, That only those countries for which assistance was 
justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' 
in the fiscal year 1989 congressional presentation for security 
assistance programs may utilize funds made available under this 
heading for procurement of defense articles, defense services 
or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for defense articles and services: Provided further, 
That not more than $54,464,000 of the funds appropriated under 
this heading may be obligated for necessary expenses, including 
the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only 
for use outside of the United States, for the general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales, except that this 
limitation may be exceeded only through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading for general costs of administering military assistance 
and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be 
available for representation allowances: Provided further, That 
not more than $550,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to 
section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act may be 
obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during fiscal year 2010 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms 
Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded 
only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                international organizations and programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of 
section 2 of the United Nations Environment Program 
Participation Act of 1973, $394,000,000: Provided, That section 
307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
contributions to the United Nations Democracy Fund.

                  international financial institutions

                      global environment facility

    For the United States contribution for the Global 
Environment Facility, $86,500,000, to the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development as trustee for the Global 
Environment Facility, by the Secretary of the Treasury, to 
remain available until expended.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $1,262,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

               contribution to the clean technology fund

    For contributions to the multilateral Clean Technology 
Fund, $300,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               contribution to the strategic climate fund

    For contributions to the multilateral Strategic Climate 
Fund, $75,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Investment Corporation by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $4,670,000, to remain available 
until expended.

contribution to the enterprise for the americas multilateral investment 
                                  fund

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the 
United States contribution to the fund, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to the increase in resources of the Asian Development 
Fund, as authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as 
amended, $105,000,000, to remain available until expended.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to the increase in resources of the African 
Development Fund, $155,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to increase the resources of the International Fund 
for Agricultural Development, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, as amended, $2,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011.

                            program account

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized 
to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to such corporation, and in 
accordance with law, and to make such contracts and commitments 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 
section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for the current fiscal 
year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the funds 
available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of 
nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, other 
than a nuclear-weapon state as defined in Article IX of the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to 
receive economic or military assistance under this Act, that 
has detonated a nuclear explosive after the date of the 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 1(c) of Public Law 103-428, as amended, sections 1(a) 
and (b) of Public Law 103-428 shall remain in effect through 
October 1, 2010: Provided further, That not less than 10 
percent of the aggregate loan, guarantee, and insurance 
authority available to the Export-Import Bank under this Act 
should be used for renewable energy technologies or end-use 
energy efficiency technologies.

                         subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, 
and tied-aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-
Import Bank Act of 1945, as amended, not to exceed $58,000,000: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such funds shall 
remain available until September 30, 2025, for the disbursement 
of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance and tied-aid grants 
obligated in fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act or any 
prior Acts appropriating funds for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs for tied-aid credits 
or grants may be used for any other purpose except through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated by 
this paragraph are made available notwithstanding section 
2(b)(2) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, in connection 
with the purchase or lease of any product by any Eastern 
European country, any Baltic State or any agency or national 
thereof.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan and insurance programs, including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
not to exceed $83,880,000: Provided, That the Export-Import 
Bank may accept, and use, payment or services provided by 
transaction participants for legal, financial, or technical 
services in connection with any transaction for which an 
application for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has 
been made: Provided further, That notwithstanding subsection 
(b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, 
subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until October 1, 
2010.

                           receipts collected

    Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act 
of 1945, as amended, and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, 
as amended, in an amount not to exceed the amount appropriated 
herein, shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
account: Provided, That the sums herein appropriated from the 
General Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by 
such offsetting collections so as to result in a final fiscal 
year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $0: 
Provided further, That amounts collected in fiscal year 2010 in 
excess of obligations shall become available on September 1, 
2010 and shall remain available until September 30, 2013.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized 
to make, without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided 
by 31 U.S.C. 9104, such expenditures and commitments within the 
limits of funds available to it and in accordance with law as 
may be necessary: Provided, That the amount available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance 
programs (including an amount for official reception and 
representation expenses which shall not exceed $35,000) shall 
not exceed $52,310,000: Provided further, That project-specific 
transaction costs, including direct and indirect costs incurred 
in claims settlements, and other direct costs associated with 
services provided to specific investors or potential investors 
pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
shall not be considered administrative expenses for the 
purposes of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $29,000,000, 
as authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, to be derived by transfer from the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation Noncredit Account: Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That such sums shall be available for direct 
loan obligations and loan guaranty commitments incurred or made 
during fiscal years 2010, 2011, and 2012: Provided further, 
That funds so obligated in fiscal year 2010 remain available 
for disbursement through 2018; funds obligated in fiscal year 
2011 remain available for disbursement through 2019; and funds 
obligated in fiscal year 2012 remain available for disbursement 
through 2020: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
is authorized to undertake any program authorized by title IV 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq: Provided 
further, That funds made available pursuant to the authority of 
the previous proviso shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    In addition, such sums as may be necessary for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit program may be 
derived from amounts available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs in the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and merged 
with said account.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $55,200,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, not more than $4,000 
may be available for representation and entertainment 
allowances.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

    Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act 
shall be available, except as otherwise provided, for 
allowances and differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of 
title 5, United States Code; for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and for hire of passenger transportation pursuant 
to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).

                      unobligated balances report

    Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations a quarterly accounting of cumulative balances by 
program, project, and activity of the funds received by such 
department or agency in this fiscal year or any previous fiscal 
year that remain unobligated and unexpended.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under 
title I of this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter 
of public record and available for public inspection, except 
where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.

                          embassy construction

    Sec. 7004. (a) Of funds provided under title I of this Act, 
except as provided in subsection (b), a project to construct a 
diplomatic facility of the United States may not include office 
space or other accommodations for an employee of a Federal 
agency or department if the Secretary of State determines that 
such department or agency has not provided to the Department of 
State the full amount of funding required by subsection (e) of 
section 604 of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into law by section 
1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G of 
that Act; 113 Stat. 1501A-453), as amended by section 629 of 
the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005.
    (b) Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), a 
project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States 
may include office space or other accommodations for members of 
the United States Marine Corps.
    (c) Funds appropriated by this Act, and any prior Act 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, which may be made available 
for the acquisition of property for diplomatic facilities in 
Kabul, Afghanistan, shall be subject to prior consultation 
with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                           personnel actions

    Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under title I of this Act resulting from personnel 
actions taken in response to funding reductions included in 
this Act shall be absorbed within the total budgetary resources 
available under title I to such department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations 
accounts as may be necessary to carry out this section is 
provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in this 
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 7015 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                         local guard contracts

    Sec. 7006.  In evaluating proposals for local guard 
contracts, the Secretary of State shall award contracts in 
accordance with section 136 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 4864), 
except that the Secretary may grant authorization to award such 
contracts on the basis of best value as determined by a cost-
technical tradeoff analysis (as described in Federal 
Acquisition Regulation part 15.101) in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
Pakistan, notwithstanding subsection (c)(3) of such section: 
Provided, That the authority in this section shall apply to any 
options for renewal that may be exercised under such contracts 
that are awarded during the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That prior to issuing a solicitation for a contract to 
be awarded pursuant to the authority under this section, the 
Secretary of State shall consult with the Committees on Foreign 
Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees 
on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act 
shall be obligated or expended to finance directly any 
assistance or reparations for the governments of Cuba, North 
Korea, Iran, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall 
include direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the 
Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

    Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act 
shall be obligated or expended to finance directly any 
assistance to the government of any country whose duly elected 
head of government is deposed by military coup or decree: 
Provided, That assistance may be resumed to such government if 
the President determines and certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that subsequent to the termination of assistance 
a democratically elected government has taken office: Provided 
further, That the provisions of this section shall not apply to 
assistance to promote democratic elections or public 
participation in democratic processes: Provided further, That 
funds made available pursuant to the previous provisos shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board 
of Governors.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of State under title I of this Act may be transferred between 
such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That not to 
exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
percent by any such transfers: Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 7015(a) and (b) of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    (b) Export Financing Transfer Authorities.--Not to exceed 5 
percent of any appropriation other than for administrative 
expenses made available for fiscal year 2010, for programs 
under title VI of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs, and 
activities for which the funds in such receiving account may be 
used, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 25 
percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the exercise of 
such authority shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation on Transfers Between Agencies.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under titles 
        II through V of this Act may be transferred to any 
        department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
        States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made 
        by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
        other appropriation Act.
            (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in addition to 
        transfers made by, or authorized elsewhere in, this 
        Act, funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
        purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
        allocated or transferred to agencies of the United 
        States Government pursuant to the provisions of 
        sections 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961.
            (3) Any agreement entered into by the United States 
        Agency for International Development (USAID) or the 
        Department of State with any department, agency, or 
        instrumentality of the United States Government 
        pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 and any 
        agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, 
        with funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts 
        making appropriations for the Department of State, 
        foreign operations, and related programs under the 
        headings ``Global Health and Child Survival'', 
        ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
        Provided, That the requirement in the previous sentence 
        shall not apply to agreements entered into between 
        USAID and the Department of State.
    (d) Transfers Between Accounts.--None of the funds made 
available under titles II through V of this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in 
this Act, unless the President, not less than 5 days prior to 
the exercise of any authority contained in the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, consults with and 
provides a written policy justification to the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers.--Any agreement for the 
transfer or allocation of funds appropriated by this Act, or 
prior Acts, entered into between the Department of State or 
USAID and another agency of the United States Government under 
the authority of section 632(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 or any comparable provision of law, shall expressly 
provide that the Inspector General for the agency receiving the 
transfer or allocation of such funds shall perform periodic 
program and financial audits of the use of such funds: 
Provided, That funds transferred under such authority may be 
made available for the cost of such audits.

                         reporting requirement

    Sec. 7010.  The Secretary of State shall provide the 
Committees on Appropriations, not later than April 1, 2010, and 
for each fiscal quarter, a report in writing on the uses of 
funds made available under the headings ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', ``International Military Education and 
Training'', and ``Peacekeeping Operations'': Provided, That 
such report shall include a description of the obligation and 
expenditure of funds, and the specific country in receipt of, 
and the use or purpose of the assistance provided by such 
funds.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 7011.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation after the expiration 
of the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this 
Act: Provided, That funds appropriated for the purposes of 
chapters 1, 8, 11, and 12 of part I, section 661, section 667, 
chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, and 
funds provided under the headings ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'' and ``Development Credit 
Authority'', shall remain available for an additional 4 years 
from the date on which the availability of such funds would 
otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially obligated 
before the expiration of their respective periods of 
availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 
of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are 
allocated or obligated for cash disbursements in order to 
address balance of payments or economic policy reform 
objectives, shall remain available until expended.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under 
titles III through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish 
assistance to the government of any country which is in default 
during a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to 
the United States of principal or interest on any loan made to 
the government of such country by the United States pursuant to 
a program for which funds are appropriated under this Act 
unless the President determines, following consultations with 
the Committees on Appropriations, that assistance for such 
country is in the national interest of the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

    Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
made available to provide assistance for a foreign country 
under a new bilateral agreement governing the terms and 
conditions under which such assistance is to be provided unless 
such agreement includes a provision stating that assistance 
provided by the United States shall be exempt from taxation, or 
reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the Secretary of 
State shall expeditiously seek to negotiate amendments to 
existing bilateral agreements, as necessary, to conform with 
this requirement.
    (b) Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An amount equivalent 
to 200 percent of the total taxes assessed during fiscal year 
2010 on funds appropriated by this Act by a foreign government 
or entity against commodities financed under United States 
assistance programs for which funds are appropriated by this 
Act, either directly or through grantees, contractors and 
subcontractors shall be withheld from obligation from funds 
appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2011 and allocated 
for the central government of such country and for the West 
Bank and Gaza program to the extent that the Secretary of State 
certifies and reports in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations that such taxes have not been reimbursed to the 
Government of the United States.
    (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis 
nature shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection 
(b).
    (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation 
for each country or entity pursuant to subsection (b) shall be 
reprogrammed for assistance to countries which do not assess 
taxes on United States assistance or which have an effective 
arrangement that is providing substantial reimbursement of such 
taxes.
    (e) Determinations.--
            (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply 
        to any country or entity the Secretary of State 
        determines--
                    (A) does not assess taxes on United States 
                assistance or which has an effective 
                arrangement that is providing substantial 
                reimbursement of such taxes; or
                    (B) the foreign policy interests of the 
                United States outweigh the purpose of this 
                section to ensure that United States assistance 
                is not subject to taxation.
            (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
        exercising the authority of this subsection with regard 
        to any country or entity.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue 
rules, regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to 
implement the prohibition against the taxation of assistance 
contained in this section.
    (g) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the terms ``taxes'' and ``taxation'' refer to 
        value added taxes and customs duties imposed on 
        commodities financed with United States assistance for 
        programs for which funds are appropriated by this Act; 
        and
            (2) the term ``bilateral agreement'' refers to a 
        framework bilateral agreement between the Government of 
        the United States and the government of the country 
        receiving assistance that describes the privileges and 
        immunities applicable to United States foreign 
        assistance for such country generally, or an individual 
        agreement between the Government of the United States 
        and such government that describes, among other things, 
        the treatment for tax purposes that will be accorded 
        the United States assistance provided under that 
        agreement.

                         reservations of funds

    Sec. 7014. (a) Funds appropriated under titles II through 
VI of this Act which are specifically designated may be 
reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the designation if compliance with the 
designation is made impossible by operation of any provision of 
this or any other Act: Provided, That any such reprogramming 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That assistance 
that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be made 
available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection 
(a), the original period of availability of funds appropriated 
by this Act and administered by the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) that are specifically 
designated for particular programs or activities by this or any 
other Act shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if 
the USAID Administrator determines and reports promptly to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the termination of assistance 
to a country or a significant change in circumstances makes it 
unlikely that such designated funds can be obligated during the 
original period of availability: Provided, That such designated 
funds that continue to be available for an additional fiscal 
year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such 
designation.
    (c) Ceilings and specifically designated funding levels 
contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or 
authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any 
subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so directs: 
Provided, That specifically designated funding levels or 
minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act shall 
not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.

                reprogramming notification requirements

    Sec. 7015. (a) None of the funds made available in title I 
of this Act, or in prior appropriations Acts to the agencies 
and departments funded by this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from 
any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by 
the collection of fees or of currency reflows or other 
offsetting collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
agencies and departments funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
that: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, 
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
means for any project or activity for which funds have been 
denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) 
closes or opens a mission or post; (6) reorganizes or renames 
offices; (7) reorganizes programs or activities; or (8) 
contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
presently performed by Federal employees; unless the Committees 
on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.
    (b) For the purposes of providing the executive branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds 
provided under title I of this Act, or provided under previous 
appropriations Acts to the agency or department funded under 
title I of this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2010, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agency or department funded by title I 
of this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
for activities, programs, or projects through a reprogramming 
of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
less, that: (1) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing 
program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 
percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any 
general savings, including savings from a reduction in 
personnel, which would result in a change in existing programs, 
activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of 
such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) For the purposes of providing the executive branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds 
made available under titles II through V in this Act under the 
headings ``Global Health and Child Survival'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``International Organizations and Programs'', 
``Trade and Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy 
Fund'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``Capital Investment 
Fund'', ``Operating Expenses'', ``Civilian Stabilization 
Initiative'', ``Office of Inspector General'', 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', ``Millennium Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', ``International Military 
Education and Training'', ``Peace Corps'', ``Complex Crises 
Fund'', and ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', shall be 
available for obligation for activities, programs, projects, 
type of materiel assistance, countries, or other operations not 
justified or in excess of the amount justified to the 
Committees on Appropriations for obligation under any of these 
specific headings unless the Committees on Appropriations are 
previously notified 15 days in advance: Provided, That the 
President shall not enter into any commitment of funds 
appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other 
than conventional ammunition, or other major defense items 
defined to be aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, 
not previously justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess of 
the quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on 
Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
commitment: Provided further, That requirements of this 
subsection or any similar provision of any other Act shall not 
apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or project 
for which funds are appropriated under titles II through IV of 
this Act of less than 10 percent of the amount previously 
justified to the Congress for obligation for such activity, 
program, or project for the current fiscal year.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with the 
exception of funds transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated under title I of this Act, funds transferred by 
the Department of Defense to the Department of State and the 
United States Agency for International Development for 
assistance for foreign countries and international 
organizations, and funds made available for programs authorized 
by section 1206 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163), shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (e) The requirements of this section or any similar 
provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
may be waived if failure to do so would pose a substantial risk 
to human health or welfare: Provided, That in case of any such 
waiver, notification to the Committees on Appropriations shall 
be provided as early as practicable, but in no event later than 
3 days after taking the action to which such notification 
requirement was applicable, in the context of the circumstances 
necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any 
notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain 
an explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (f) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
VI of this Act shall be obligated or expended for assistance 
for Serbia, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Pakistan, Dominican Republic, 
Cuba, Iran, Haiti, Libya, Ethiopia, Nepal, Colombia, Mexico, 
Kazakhstan, Somalia, Sri Lanka, or Cambodia and countries 
listed in section 7045(c)(2) and (f)(2) of this Act except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 7016.  Prior to providing excess Department of Defense 
articles in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the Department of Defense shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations to the same extent and under 
the same conditions as other committees pursuant to subsection 
(f) of that section: Provided, That before issuing a letter of 
offer to sell excess defense articles under the Arms Export 
Control Act, the Department of Defense shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees if such defense 
articles are significant military equipment (as defined in 
section 47(9) of the Arms Export Control Act) or are valued (in 
terms of original acquisition cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or 
if notification is required elsewhere in this Act for the use 
of appropriated funds for specific countries that would receive 
such excess defense articles: Provided further, That such 
Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition 
cost of such defense articles.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 7017.  Subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under 
titles III through VI of this Act or any previously enacted Act 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, which are returned or not 
made available for organizations and programs because of the 
implementation of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, shall remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2011.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may 
be used to pay for the performance of abortions as a method of 
family planning or to motivate or coerce any person to practice 
abortions. None of the funds made available to carry out part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used 
to pay for the performance of involuntary sterilization as a 
method of family planning or to coerce or provide any financial 
incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None of the 
funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to 
methods of, or the performance of, abortions or involuntary 
sterilization as a means of family planning. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, as amended, may be obligated or expended for any 
country or organization if the President certifies that the use 
of these funds by any such country or organization would 
violate any of the above provisions related to abortions and 
involuntary sterilizations.

                              allocations

    Sec. 7019. (a) Funds provided in this Act for the following 
accounts shall be made available for programs and countries in 
the amounts contained in the respective tables included in the 
joint explanatory statement accompanying this Act:
            ``American Sections, International Commissions''.
            ``Civilian Stabilization Initiative''.
            ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs''.
            ``Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs''.
            ``International Boundary and Water Commission, 
        United States and Mexico''.
            ``International Fisheries Commissions''.
            ``International Broadcasting Operations''.
            ``Global Health and Child Survival''.
            ``Democracy Fund''.
            ``Economic Support Fund''.
            ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
        Asia''.
            ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement''.
            ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
        Related Programs''.
            ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
            ``Peacekeeping Operations''.
            ``International Organizations and Programs''.
    (b) For the purposes of implementing this section and only 
with respect to the tables included in the joint explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act, the Secretary of State, the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development and the Broadcasting Board of Governors, as 
appropriate, may propose deviations to the amounts referenced 
in subsection (a), subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) The requirements contained in subsection (a) shall 
apply to the tables under the headings ``Bilateral Economic 
Assistance'' and ``General Provisions'' in the joint 
explanatory statement.

               prohibition of payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 7020.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act under the headings ``International 
Military Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' for Informational Program activities or 
under the headings ``Global Health and Child Survival'', 
``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support Fund'' may 
be obligated or expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including 
        but not limited to entrance fees at sporting events, 
        theatrical and musical productions, and amusement 
        parks.

  prohibition on assistance to foreign governments that export lethal 
   military equipment to countries supporting international terrorism

    Sec. 7021. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by titles III through VI of this Act may be 
available to any foreign government which provides lethal 
military equipment to a country the government of which the 
Secretary of State has determined is a government that supports 
international terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) of the 
Export Administration Act of 1979: Provided, That the 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign 
government shall terminate 12 months after that government 
ceases to provide such military equipment: Provided further, 
That this section applies with respect to lethal military 
equipment provided under a contract entered into after October 
1, 1997.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other 
similar provision of law, may be furnished if the President 
determines that to do so is important to the national interests 
of the United States.
    (c) Whenever the President makes a determination pursuant 
to subsection (b), the President shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations a report with respect to the furnishing of 
such assistance, including a detailed explanation of the 
assistance to be provided, the estimated dollar amount of such 
assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance furthers 
United States national interests.

       prohibition on bilateral assistance to terrorist countries

    Sec. 7022. (a) Funds appropriated for bilateral assistance 
in titles III through VI of this Act and funds appropriated 
under any such heading in a provision of law enacted prior to 
the enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any 
        individual or group which has committed an act of 
        international terrorism; or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection 
(a) to a country if the President determines that national 
security or humanitarian reasons justify such waiver: Provided, 
That the President shall publish each such waiver in the 
Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the waiver takes 
effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

    Sec. 7023.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development 
Agency'', may be obligated and expended notwithstanding section 
10 of Public Law 91-672, section 15 of the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956, section 313 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public 
Law 103-236), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 7024.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this 
Act ``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at the 
appropriations Act account level and shall include all 
appropriations and authorizations Acts funding directives, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the 
following accounts: ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall also be considered to include country, 
regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the United 
States Agency for International Development ``program, project, 
and activity'' shall also be considered to include central, 
country, regional, and program level funding, either as: (1) 
justified to the Congress; or (2) allocated by the executive 
branch in accordance with a report, to be provided to the 
Committees on Appropriations within 30 days of the enactment of 
this Act, as required by section 653(a) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.

authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and african 
                         development foundation

    Sec. 7025.  Unless expressly provided to the contrary, 
provisions of this or any other Act, including provisions 
contained in prior Acts authorizing or making appropriations 
for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
programs, shall not be construed to prohibit activities 
authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
Foundation Act: Provided, That the agency shall promptly report 
to the Committees on Appropriations whenever it is conducting 
activities or is proposing to conduct activities in a country 
for which assistance is prohibited.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

    Sec. 7026. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for 
direct assistance and none of the funds otherwise made 
available to the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation shall be obligated or expended to 
finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any 
commodity for export by any country other than the United 
States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on world 
markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is 
expected to become operative and if the assistance will cause 
substantial injury to United States producers of the same, 
similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the 
judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and 
employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or 
competing commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 shall be available for any testing or breeding 
feasibility study, variety improvement or introduction, 
consultancy, publication, conference, or training in connection 
with the growth or production in a foreign country of an 
agricultural commodity for export which would compete with a 
similar commodity grown or produced in the United States: 
Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security 
        in developing countries where such activities will not 
        have a significant impact on the export of agricultural 
        commodities of the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to 
        benefit American producers.
    (c) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-
American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the 
Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Investment 
Corporation, the North American Development Bank, the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
Development Bank, and the African Development Fund to use the 
voice and vote of the United States to oppose any assistance by 
these institutions, using funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act, for the 
production or extraction of any commodity or mineral for 
export, if it is in surplus on world markets and if the 
assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 7027. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
            (1) If assistance is furnished to the government of 
        a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part I or 
        chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 under agreements which result in the generation of 
        local currencies of that country, the Administrator of 
        the United States Agency for International Development 
        (USAID) shall--
                    (A) require that local currencies be 
                deposited in a separate account established by 
                that government;
                    (B) enter into an agreement with that 
                government which sets forth--
                            (i) the amount of the local 
                        currencies to be generated; and
                            (ii) the terms and conditions under 
                        which the currencies so deposited may 
                        be utilized, consistent with this 
                        section; and
                    (C) establish by agreement with that 
                government the responsibilities of USAID and 
                that government to monitor and account for 
                deposits into and disbursements from the 
                separate account.
            (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed 
        upon with the foreign government, local currencies 
        deposited in a separate account pursuant to subsection 
        (a), or an equivalent amount of local currencies, shall 
        be used only--
                    (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I 
                or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
                Assistance Act of 1961 (as the case may be), 
                for such purposes as--
                            (i) project and sector assistance 
                        activities; or
                            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
                    (B) for the administrative requirements of 
                the United States Government.
            (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take 
        all necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of 
        the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2)(A) from the separate account established 
        pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are used for the purposes 
        agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
            (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon 
        termination of assistance to a country under chapter 1 
        or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (as the case may be), any 
        unencumbered balances of funds which remain in a 
        separate account established pursuant to subsection (a) 
        shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed 
        to by the government of that country and the United 
        States Government.
            (5) Reporting requirement.--The USAID Administrator 
        shall report on an annual basis as part of the 
        justification documents submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the use of local currencies for the 
        administrative requirements of the United States 
        Government as authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and 
        such report shall include the amount of local currency 
        (and United States dollar equivalent) used and/or to be 
        used for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
            (1) If assistance is made available to the 
        government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 
        of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or 
        as nonproject sector assistance, that country shall be 
        required to maintain such funds in a separate account 
        and not commingle them with any other funds.
            (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such 
        funds may be obligated and expended notwithstanding 
        provisions of law which are inconsistent with the 
        nature of this assistance including provisions which 
        are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of 
        the Committee of Conference accompanying House Joint 
        Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-1159).
            (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to 
        obligating any such cash transfer or nonproject sector 
        assistance, the President shall submit a notification 
        through the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a 
        detailed description of how the funds proposed to be 
        made available will be used, with a discussion of the 
        United States interests that will be served by the 
        assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of 
        the economic policy reforms that will be promoted by 
        such assistance).
            (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds 
        may be exempt from the requirements of subsection 
        (b)(1) only through the regular notification procedures 
        of the Committees on Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 7028. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental 
Organizations.--Restrictions contained in this or any other Act 
with respect to assistance for a country shall not be construed 
to restrict assistance in support of programs of 
nongovernmental organizations from funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 11, and 12 
of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, 
That before using the authority of this subsection to furnish 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental 
organizations, the President shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations under the regular notification procedures of 
those committees, including a description of the program to be 
assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the reasons for 
furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing in 
this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing 
statutory prohibitions against abortion or involuntary 
sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2010, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance 
for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated to carry 
out title I of such Act and made available pursuant to this 
subsection may be obligated or expended except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of 
        law prohibiting assistance to countries that support 
        international terrorism; or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of 
        law prohibiting assistance to the government of a 
        country that violates internationally recognized human 
        rights.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 7029.  None of the funds appropriated under titles III 
through VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to 
provide--
            (1) any financial incentive to a business 
        enterprise currently located in the United States for 
        the purpose of inducing such an enterprise to relocate 
        outside the United States if such incentive or 
        inducement is likely to reduce the number of employees 
        of such business enterprise in the United States 
        because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States; or
            (2) assistance for any program, project, or 
        activity that contributes to the violation of 
        internationally recognized workers rights, as defined 
        in section 507(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of workers 
        in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That the application 
        of section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should be 
        commensurate with the level of development of the 
        recipient country and sector, and shall not preclude 
        assistance for the informal sector in such country, 
        micro and small-scale enterprise, and smallholder 
        agriculture.

                  international financial institutions

    Sec. 7030. (a) None of the funds appropriated in title V of 
this Act may be made as payment to any international financial 
institution while the United States Executive Director to such 
institution is compensated by the institution at a rate which, 
together with whatever compensation such Director receives from 
the United States, is in excess of the rate provided for an 
individual occupying a position at level IV of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or 
while any alternate United States Director to such institution 
is compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the 
rate provided for an individual occupying a position at level V 
of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United 
States Code.
    (b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director at each international financial 
institution to oppose any loan, grant, strategy or policy of 
such institution that would require user fees or service 
charges on poor people for primary education or primary 
healthcare, including prevention, care and treatment for HIV/
AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and infant, child, and maternal 
health, in connection with the institutions' financing 
programs.
    (c) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund 
(the Fund) to use the voice and vote of the United States to 
oppose any loan, project, agreement, memorandum, instrument, 
plan, or other program of the Fund to a Heavily Indebted Poor 
Country that imposes budget caps or restraints that do not 
allow the maintenance of or an increase in governmental 
spending on health care or education; and to promote government 
spending on health care, education, food aid, or other critical 
safety net programs in all of the Fund's activities with 
respect to Heavily Indebted Poor Countries.
    (d) For purposes of this section ``international financial 
institutions'' are the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian 
Development Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African 
Development Bank, the African Development Fund, the 
International Monetary Fund, the North American Development 
Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 7031.  In order to enhance the continued participation 
of nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and 
debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization which 
is a grantee or contractor of the United States Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing 
accounts local currencies which accrue to that organization as 
a result of economic assistance provided under title III of 
this Act and, subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, any interest earned on such 
investment shall be used for the purpose for which the 
assistance was provided to that organization.

             authority to engage in debt buybacks or sales

    Sec. 7032. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or 
Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain 
        loans.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
        President may, in accordance with this section, sell to 
        any eligible purchaser any concessional loan or portion 
        thereof made before January 1, 1995, pursuant to the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to the government of 
        any eligible country as defined in section 702(6) of 
        that Act or on receipt of payment from an eligible 
        purchaser, reduce or cancel such loan or portion 
        thereof, only for the purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-
                development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country 
                of its own qualified debt, only if the eligible 
                country uses an additional amount of the local 
                currency of the eligible country, equal to not 
                less than 40 percent of the price paid for such 
                debt by such eligible country, or the 
                difference between the price paid for such debt 
                and the face value of such debt, to support 
                activities that link conservation and 
                sustainable use of natural resources with local 
                community development, and child survival and 
                other child development, in a manner consistent 
                with sections 707 through 710 of the Foreign 
                Assistance Act of 1961, if the sale, reduction, 
                or cancellation would not contravene any term 
                or condition of any prior agreement relating to 
                such loan.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, the President shall, in 
        accordance with this section, establish the terms and 
        conditions under which loans may be sold, reduced, or 
        canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in 
        section 702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
        shall notify the administrator of the agency primarily 
        responsible for administering part I of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 of purchasers that the President 
        has determined to be eligible, and shall direct such 
        agency to carry out the sale, reduction, or 
        cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section: 
        Provided, That such agency shall make adjustment in its 
        accounts to reflect the sale, reduction, or 
        cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection 
        shall be available only to the extent that 
        appropriations for the cost of the modification, as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
        of 1974, are made in advance.
    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, 
reduction, or cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or 
canceled pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the 
United States Government account or accounts established for 
the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans 
satisfactory to the President for using the loan for the 
purpose of engaging in debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-
development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this 
section, of any loan made to an eligible country, the President 
should consult with the country concerning the amount of loans 
to be sold, reduced, or canceled and their uses for debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature 
swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by 
subsection (a) may be used only with regard to funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Debt 
Restructuring''.

                  special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 7033. (a) Authority to Reduce Debt.--The President may 
reduce amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the 
United States) by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the 
        Arms Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation, 
        to pay for purchases of United States agricultural 
        commodities guaranteed by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation under export credit guarantee programs 
        authorized pursuant to section 5(f) of the Commodity 
        Credit Corporation Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as 
        amended, section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act of 
        1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or section 202 of 
        the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (Public 
        Law 95-501).
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt 
        relief and referendum agreements, commonly referred to 
        as ``Paris Club Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is 
        provided in advance by appropriations Acts.
            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy 
        debt burdens that are eligible to borrow from the 
        International Development Association, but not from the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
        commonly referred to as ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
may be exercised only with respect to a country whose 
government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international 
        narcotics control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security 
        forces) does not engage in a consistent pattern of 
        gross violations of internationally recognized human 
        rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by 
subsection (a) may be used only with regard to the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Debt 
Restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance 
for the purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to 
a country: Provided, That the authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be exercised notwithstanding section 620(r) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 321 of the 
International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975.

                          special authorities

    Sec. 7034. (a) Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Lebanon, 
Montenegro, Victims of War, Displaced Children, and Displaced 
Burmese.--Funds appropriated under titles III through VI of 
this Act that are made available for assistance for Afghanistan 
may be made available notwithstanding section 7012 of this Act 
or any similar provision of law and section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, and funds appropriated in titles III 
and VI of this Act that are made available for Iraq, Lebanon, 
Montenegro, Pakistan, and for victims of war, displaced 
children, and displaced Burmese, and to assist victims of 
trafficking in persons and, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, to combat such 
trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) The President may waive the provisions of 
        section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President 
        determines and certifies in writing to the Speaker of 
        the House of Representatives, the President pro tempore 
        of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
        that it is important to the national security interests 
        of the United States.
            (2) Period of application of waiver.--Any waiver 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be effective for no 
        more than a period of 6 months at a time and shall not 
        apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award 
indefinite-quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this 
Act, the United States Agency for International Development may 
provide an exception to the fair opportunity process for 
placing task orders under such contracts when the order is 
placed with any category of small or small disadvantaged 
business.
    (d) Authority Repealed.--Section 7034(d) of Public Law 111-
8 is hereby repealed.
    (e) Reconstituting Civilian Police Authority.--In providing 
assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for a 
nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean support 
for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity 
emerging from instability, as well as a nation emerging from 
instability.
    (f) Extension of Authority.--The Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 
(Public Law 101-167) is amended--
            (1) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 
                2009'' and inserting ``2009, and 2010''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``2009'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``2010''; 
                and
            (2) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in 
        subsection (b)(2), by striking ``2009'' and inserting 
        ``2010''.
    (g) World Food Program.--Of the funds managed by the Bureau 
for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United 
States Agency for International Development, from this or any 
other Act, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available as 
a general contribution to the World Food Program, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (h) Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation or 
Executive order, funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs under the headings ``Economic 
Support Fund'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``Transition Initiatives'' should be 
made available to support programs to disarm, demobilize, and 
reintegrate into civilian society former members of foreign 
terrorist organizations: Provided, That the Secretary of State 
shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
the obligation of funds pursuant to this subsection: Provided 
further, That for the purposes of this subsection the term 
``foreign terrorist organization'' means an organization 
designated as a terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (i) Middle East Foundation.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
and prior Acts for a Middle East Foundation shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (j) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2010, the President 
may use up to $50,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (k) Program for Research and Training on Eastern Europe and 
the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.--Of the 
funds appropriated by this Act under the heading, ``Economic 
Support Fund'', not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
available to carry out the Program for Research and Training on 
Eastern Europe and the Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union (title VIII) as authorized by the Soviet-Eastern European 
Research and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 4501-4508, as 
amended).
    (l) Interparliamentary Exchanges.--Of the unobligated funds 
in the ``Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs'' 
appropriation account, $411,687 shall be transferred to the 
permanent appropriation for delegation expenses provided under 
section 303 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, 
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988, 
as enacted into law by section 101(a) of Public Law 100-202 (22 
USC 276e note), for the purpose of conducting 
Interparliamentary Exchanges and shall remain available until 
expended.
    (m) Democracy Promotion.--
            (1) Funds made available by this Act that are made 
        available for the promotion of democracy may be made 
        available notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        and with regard to the National Endowment for 
        Democracy, any regulation.
            (2) For the purposes of funds appropriated by this 
        Act, the term ``promotion of democracy'' means programs 
        that support good governance, human rights, independent 
        media, and the rule of law, and otherwise strengthen 
        the capacity of democratic political parties, 
        governments, nongovernmental organizations and 
        institutions, and citizens to support the development 
        of democratic states, institutions, and practices that 
        are responsive and accountable to citizens.
            (3) Any contract, grant, or cooperative agreement 
        (or any amendment to any contract, grant or cooperative 
        agreement) in excess of $1,000,000 of funds under the 
        heading ``Democracy Fund'', and in excess of $2,500,000 
        under other headings in this Act for the promotion of 
        democracy, with the exception of programs and 
        activities of the National Endowment for Democracy, 
        shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
        of the Committees on Appropriations.
            (4) With respect to the provision of assistance for 
        democracy, human rights and governance activities in 
        this Act, the organizations implementing such 
        assistance and the specific nature of that assistance 
        shall not be subject to the prior approval by the 
        government of any foreign country.
            (5) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
        this Act that are made available for the promotion of 
        democracy, not less than $30,000,000 shall be made 
        available to expand access to information and 
        communications through the Internet, and shall be used 
        for programs that provide unmonitored and uncensored 
        access to the Internet for large numbers of users 
        living in closed societies that have acutely hostile 
        Internet environments.
    (n) Personnel.--The authority provided by section 1113 of 
Public Law 111-32 shall remain in effect through fiscal year 
2010.
    (o) Partner Vetting.--None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or any prior Act may be used by the Secretary of State 
or the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to implement a Partner 
Vetting System (PVS): Provided, That notwithstanding the 
previous sentence, funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to implement a PVS pilot program, including necessary 
rulemaking: Provided further, That any such PVS pilot program 
shall apply equally to the programs and activities of the 
Department of State and USAID: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator shall jointly 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 
days after enactment of this Act and prior to the 
implementation of such a PVS pilot program, and such funds 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (p) Spending Plans.--The Secretary of State shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, and prior to the initial obligation of 
funds for assistance for Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq, 
detailed spending plans for funds appropriated for such 
purposes.
    (q) Technical Corrections.--
            (1)(A) Section 67 of the Bretton Woods Agreements 
        Act, as added by section 1402 of the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32), is 
        amended by striking ``resolution numbered 54-4'' and 
        inserting ``resolution numbered 52-4''.
            (B) The amendment made by subparagraph (A) shall 
        take effect as if included in the enactment of section 
        1402 of Public Law 111-32.
            (2) Section 302(l) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 is amended by striking ``Vaccine Fund'' and 
        inserting ``GAVI Alliance''.
    (r) Accountability Review Boards.--The authority provided 
by section 301(a)(3) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831(a)(3)) shall remain 
in effect through September 30, 2010.
    (s) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic 
Missions and International Organizations.--The Secretary of 
State shall promptly and fully implement section 203(a)(2) of 
the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457): Provided, 
That in determining whether to suspend the issuance of A-3 or 
G-5 visas to applicants seeking to work for officials of a 
diplomatic mission or international organization, the Secretary 
shall consider whether a final court judgment has been issued 
against a current or former employee of such mission or 
organization (and the time period for a final appeal has 
expired): Provided further, That the Secretary should assist in 
obtaining payment of final court judgments awarded to A-3 and 
G-5 visa holders: Provided further, That the Secretary should 
include all trafficking cases involving A-3 or G-5 visa holders 
in the Trafficking in Persons annual report where a final civil 
judgment has been issued (and the time period for final appeal 
has expired) or the Department of Justice has determined that 
the United States Government would seek to indict the diplomat 
or a family member but for diplomatic immunity.
    (t) International Tribunal for Yugoslavia.--Section 
1342(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106) is amended by adding ``, as 
amended'' after ``signed at The Hague, October 5, 1994''.

                     arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 7035.  It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the 
        secondary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel, is an impediment to peace 
        in the region and to United States investment and trade 
        in the Middle East and North Africa;
            (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
        reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
        terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of 
        Israel immediately disbanded;
            (3) all Arab League states should normalize 
        relations with their neighbor Israel;
            (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
        continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott 
        of Israel and find concrete steps to demonstrate that 
        opposition by, for example, taking into consideration 
        the participation of any recipient country in the 
        boycott when determining to sell weapons to said 
        country; and
            (5) the President should report to Congress 
        annually on specific steps being taken by the United 
        States to encourage Arab League states to normalize 
        their relations with Israel to bring about the 
        termination of the Arab League boycott of Israel, 
        including those to encourage allies and trading 
        partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
        businesses from complying with the boycott and 
        penalizing businesses that do comply.

                         palestinian statehood

    Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
provided to support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary of 
State determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that--
            (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian 
        state--
                    (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to 
                peaceful co-existence with the State of Israel;
                    (B) is taking appropriate measures to 
                counter terrorism and terrorist financing in 
                the West Bank and Gaza, including the 
                dismantling of terrorist infrastructures, and 
                is cooperating with appropriate Israeli and 
                other appropriate security organizations; and
            (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing 
        entity of a new Palestinian state) is working with 
        other countries in the region to vigorously pursue 
        efforts to establish a just, lasting, and comprehensive 
        peace in the Middle East that will enable Israel and an 
        independent Palestinian state to exist within the 
        context of full and normal relationships, which should 
        include--
                    (A) termination of all claims or states of 
                belligerency;
                    (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the 
                sovereignty, territorial integrity, and 
                political independence of every state in the 
                area through measures including the 
                establishment of demilitarized zones;
                    (C) their right to live in peace within 
                secure and recognized boundaries free from 
                threats or acts of force;
                    (D) freedom of navigation through 
                international waterways in the area; and
                    (E) a framework for achieving a just 
                settlement of the refugee problem.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
the governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the 
rule of law, an independent judiciary, and respect for human 
rights for its citizens, and should enact other laws and 
regulations assuring transparent and accountable governance.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if he 
determines that it is important to the national security 
interests of the United States to do so.
    (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian 
Authority and affiliated institutions, or the governing entity, 
in order to help meet the requirements of subsection (a), 
consistent with the provisions of section 7040 of this Act 
(``Limitation on Assistance to the Palestinian Authority'').

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7037.  None of the funds appropriated under titles II 
through VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create 
in any part of Jerusalem a new office of any department or 
agency of the United States Government for the purpose of 
conducting official United States Government business with the 
Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO 
Declaration of Principles: Provided, That this restriction 
shall not apply to the acquisition of additional space for the 
existing Consulate General in Jerusalem: Provided further, That 
meetings between officers and employees of the United States 
and officials of the Palestinian Authority, or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO 
Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of conducting 
official United States Government business with such authority 
should continue to take place in locations other than 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That as has been true in the past, 
officers and employees of the United States Government may 
continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with 
Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in the 
Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have 
incidental discussions.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 7038.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, 
technical support, consulting services, or any other form of 
assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2010, 30 days 
prior to the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral West 
Bank and Gaza Program, the Secretary of State shall certify to 
the Committees on Appropriations that procedures have been 
established to assure the Comptroller General of the United 
States will have access to appropriate United States financial 
information in order to review the uses of United States 
assistance for the Program funded under the heading ``Economic 
Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated 
by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
assistance for the West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State 
shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that such assistance 
is not provided to or through any individual, private or 
government entity, or educational institution that the 
Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, plans, 
sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist activity 
nor, with respect to private entities or educational 
institutions, those that have as a principal officer of the 
entity's governing board or governing board of trustees any 
individual that has been determined to be involved in, or 
advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a member of a 
designated foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That the 
Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this 
subsection and shall terminate assistance to any individual, 
entity, or educational institution which the Secretary has 
determined to be involved in or advocating terrorist activity.
    (c) Prohibition.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated under titles III 
        through VI of this Act for assistance under the West 
        Bank and Gaza Program may be made available for the 
        purpose of recognizing or otherwise honoring 
        individuals who commit, or have committed acts of 
        terrorism.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        none of the funds made available by this or prior 
        appropriations Acts, including funds made available by 
        transfer, may be made available for obligation for 
        security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza until 
        the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been 
        established for security assistance for the West Bank 
        and Gaza and reports on the extent of Palestinian 
        compliance with such benchmarks.
    (d) Audits.--
            (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency 
        for International Development shall ensure that Federal 
        or non-Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, 
        and significant subcontractors and sub-grantees, under 
        the West Bank and Gaza Program, are conducted at least 
        on an annual basis to ensure, among other things, 
        compliance with this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act up to 
        $500,000 may be used by the Office of Inspector General 
        of the United States Agency for International 
        Development for audits, inspections, and other 
        activities in furtherance of the requirements of this 
        subsection: Provided, That such funds are in addition 
        to funds otherwise available for such purposes.
    (e) Subsequent to the certification specified in subsection 
(a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct 
an audit and an investigation of the treatment, handling, and 
uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza Program, 
including all funds provided as cash transfer assistance, in 
fiscal year 2010 under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', 
and such audit shall address--
            (1) the extent to which such Program complies with 
        the requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
        activities carried out under such Program, including 
        both obligations and expenditures.
    (f) Funds made available in this Act for West Bank and Gaza 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations updating the report contained in section 2106 
of chapter 2 of title II of Public Law 109-13.

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
obligated or expended with respect to providing funds to the 
Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) 
shall not apply if the President certifies in writing to the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President pro 
tempore of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
that waiving such prohibition is important to the national 
security interests of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant 
to subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period 
of 6 months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months 
after the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to 
subsection (b) is exercised, the President shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing the 
justification for the waiver, the purposes for which the funds 
will be spent, and the accounting procedures in place to ensure 
that the funds are properly disbursed: Provided, That the 
report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian Authority 
has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons and 
dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
    (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver 
authority under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must 
certify and report to the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
the obligation of funds that the Palestinian Authority has 
established a single treasury account for all Palestinian 
Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow through 
this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside of 
the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a 
single comprehensive civil service roster and payroll.
    (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III 
        through VI of this Act may be obligated for salaries of 
        personnel of the Palestinian Authority located in Gaza 
        or may be obligated or expended for assistance to Hamas 
        or any entity effectively controlled by Hamas or any 
        power-sharing government of which Hamas is a member.
            (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of subsection 
        (1), assistance may be provided to a power-sharing 
        government only if the President certifies and reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that such 
        government, including all of its ministers or such 
        equivalent, has publicly accepted and is complying with 
        the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1)(A) and 
        (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
            (3) The President may exercise the authority in 
        section 620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act as added 
        by the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public 
        Law 109-446) with respect to this subsection.
            (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to 
        paragraph (2) is exercised, the Secretary of State 
        shall submit a report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations within 120 days of the certification and 
        every quarter thereafter on whether such government, 
        including all of its ministers or such equivalent are 
        continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
        section 620K(b)(l)(A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961, as amended: Provided, That the report 
        shall also detail the amount, purposes and delivery 
        mechanisms for any assistance provided pursuant to the 
        abovementioned certification and a full accounting of 
        any direct support of such government.
            (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III 
        through VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance 
        for the Palestine Liberation Organization.

                              saudi arabia

    Sec. 7041.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be obligated or expended to finance any assistance to Saudi 
Arabia: Provided, That the Secretary of State may waive this 
section if the Secretary determines that to do so is in the 
national interest of the United States.

                               near east

    Sec. 7042. (a) Egypt.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
        of this Act, not less than $1,295,200,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for Egypt.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for 
        Egypt, up to $50,000,000 may be made available for an 
        endowment to further the shared interests of the United 
        States and Egypt, consistent with the purposes and 
        requirements for which such funds are requested in the 
        fiscal year 2010 congressional budget justification 
        materials and appropriated under such heading: 
        Provided, That the Secretary of State shall consult 
        with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
        establishment of such an endowment, and any funds to be 
        used for such an endowment shall be subject to the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
    (b) Iraq.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
        of this Act, up to $466,800,000 may be made available 
        for assistance for Iraq.
            (2) The terms and conditions of section 1106(a) and 
        (b) of Public Law 111-32 shall apply to assistance for 
        Iraq in fiscal year 2010.
            (3) None of the funds made available in this Act 
        may be used by the Government of the United States to 
        enter into a permanent basing rights agreement between 
        the United States and Iraq.
    (c) Jordan.--Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
of this Act, not less than $542,950,000 shall be made available 
for assistance for Jordan.
    (d) Lebanon.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
        of this Act, not less than $238,300,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for Lebanon.
            (2) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Foreign 
        Military Financing Program'' in this Act for assistance 
        for Lebanon shall be made available only to 
        professionalize the Lebanese Armed Forces and to 
        strengthen border security and combat terrorism, 
        including training and equipping the Lebanese Armed 
        Forces to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting arms 
        shipments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe 
        haven for terrorist groups and implementing United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 1701: Provided, 
        That funds may not be made available for obligation 
        until the Secretary of State provides the Committees on 
        Appropriations a detailed spending plan.
    (e) Middle East Peace.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
should be made available in a manner to further peace in the 
Middle East between Israelis and Palestinians.
    (f) West Bank and Gaza.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
        of this Act, $502,900,000 shall be made available for 
        assistance for the West Bank and Gaza.
            (2) The reporting requirements contained in section 
        1404 of Public Law 110-242 shall apply to funds made 
        available by this Act, including a description of 
        modifications, if any, to the security strategy of the 
        Palestinian Authority.
            (3) The reporting requirements regarding the United 
        Nations Relief and Works Agency contained in the joint 
        explanatory statement accompanying the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32, House 
        Report 111-151) under the heading ``Migration and 
        Refugee Assistance'' in title XI shall apply to funds 
        made available by this Act under such heading.

                             IRAN SANCTIONS

      Sec. 7043. (a) Use of Funds.--It is the policy of the 
United States to seek to prevent Iran from achieving the 
capability to produce or otherwise manufacture nuclear weapons, 
including by supporting international diplomatic efforts to 
halt Iran's uranium enrichment program, and the President 
should fully implement and enforce the Iran Sanctions Act of 
1996, as amended (Public Law 104-172) as a means of encouraging 
foreign governments to require state-owned and private entities 
to cease all investment in, and support of, Iran's energy 
sector and all exports of refined petroleum products to Iran.
      (b) Limitation.--
            (1) None of the funds made available in title VI of 
        this Act under the heading ``Program Account'' or 
        ``Subsidy Appropriation'' may be used by the Export-
        Import Bank of the United States to authorize any new 
        guarantee, insurance, or extension of credit for any 
        project controlled by an energy producer or refiner 
        that continues to:
                    (A) provide Iran with significant refined 
                petroleum resources;
                    (B) materially contribute to Iran's 
                capability to import refined petroleum 
                resources; or
                    (C) allow Iran to maintain or expand, in 
                any material respect, its domestic production 
                of refined petroleum resources, including any 
                assistance in refinery construction, 
                modernization, or repair.
            (2) If the Secretary of State determines and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that a 
        country is closely cooperating with efforts of the 
        United States related to Iran, such as through the 
        imposition of sanctions, the Secretary may exempt 
        private entities from such country from the limitation 
        under paragraph (1).
            (3) The President may waive the limitation under 
        paragraph (1) if the President determines and reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so is 
        important to the national security interest of the 
        United States.
      (c) Reports.--
            (1) The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations, not later than 90 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act and the end of 
        each 90-day period thereafter until September 30, 2010, 
        a report on the status of the bilateral and 
        multilateral efforts aimed at curtailing the pursuit by 
        Iran of nuclear weapons technology.
            (2) The Secretary of State, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations, not later than 180 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, a report on 
        the status of bilateral United States and multilateral 
        sanctions against Iran and actions taken by the United 
        States and the international community to enforce 
        sanctions against Iran: Provided, That such report may 
        be submitted in classified form if necessary and shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) a list of all current United States 
                bilateral and multilateral sanctions against 
                Iran;
                    (B) a list of all United States and foreign 
                entities that the Secretary of State has reason 
                to believe may be in violation of existing 
                United States bilateral and multilateral 
                sanctions;
                    (C) a detailed description of United States 
                efforts to enforce sanctions, including a list 
                of all investigations initiated in the 12 
                months preceding the date of enactment of this 
                Act that have resulted in a determination that 
                a sanctions violation has occurred, and actions 
                taken by the United States Government pursuant 
                to the determination;
                    (D) any case in which sanctions were waived 
                or otherwise not imposed against an entity 
                which was determined to have engaged in 
                activities for which sanctions should be 
                imposed and the reason why action was not taken 
                to sanction the entity; and
                    (E) a description of United States 
                diplomatic efforts to expand bilateral and 
                multilateral sanctions against Iran and 
                strengthen international efforts to enforce 
                existing sanctions.

                   aircraft transfer and coordination

    Sec. 7044. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with 
funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs under the headings ``Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', and ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' may be used 
for any other program and in any region, including for the 
transportation of active and standby Civilian Response Corps 
personnel and equipment during a deployment: Provided, That the 
responsibility for policy decisions and justification for the 
use of such transfer authority shall be the responsibility of 
the Secretary of State and the Deputy Secretary of State and 
this responsibility shall not be delegated.
    (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in 
subsection (a) shall apply only after a determination by the 
Secretary of State to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
equipment is no longer required to meet programmatic purposes 
in the designated country or region: Provided, That any such 
transfer shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the 
regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
            (1) The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by the 
        Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development (USAID) with funds made 
        available in this Act or prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs shall be coordinated 
        under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
        Mission: Provided, That such aircraft may be used to 
        transport Federal and non-Federal personnel supporting 
        the Department of State and USAID programs and 
        activities: Provided further, That official travel for 
        other agencies for other purposes may be supported on a 
        reimbursable basis, or without reimbursement when 
        traveling on a space available basis.
            (2) The requirement and authorities of this 
        subsection shall only apply to aircraft, the primary 
        purpose of which is the transportation of personnel.
    (d) Air Fleets.--Not later than September 30, 2010, the 
Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
Administrator, shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the total inventory of aircraft 
procured, leased, or contracted by the Department of State and 
USAID, the contractors operating such aircraft, and the annual 
costs of such contracts: Provided, That such report shall also 
include a best value analysis of the tradeoffs between the 
purchase or lease of aircraft, including all aspects of the 
costs and risks associated with air operations such as repair, 
maintenance, air safety and daily operations.

                           western hemisphere

    Sec. 7045. (a) Trade Capacity.--Of the funds appropriated 
by this Act, not less than $10,000,000 under the heading 
``Development Assistance'' and not less than $10,000,000 under 
the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available 
for labor and environmental capacity building activities 
relating to the free trade agreements with countries of Central 
America, Peru and the Dominican Republic.
    (b) Assistance for Haiti.--
            (1) The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to 
        purchase defense articles and services under the Arms 
        Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the 
        Coast Guard.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
        titles III and IV, not less than $295,530,000 shall be 
        made available for assistance for Haiti.
            (3) None of the funds made available by this Act 
        under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and 
        Law Enforcement'' may be used to transfer excess 
        weapons, ammunition or other lethal property of an 
        agency of the United States Government to the 
        Government of Haiti for use by the Haitian National 
        Police until the Secretary of State reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that any members of the 
        Haitian National Police who have been credibly alleged 
        to have committed serious crimes, including drug 
        trafficking and violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights, have been suspended.
    (c) Caribbean Basin Security Initiative.--Of the funds 
appropriated under the headings ``Development Assistance'', 
``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control 
and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'' in this Act, not less than $37,000,000 should be made 
available for assistance for the countries of the Caribbean 
Basin, to provide equipment and training to combat drug 
trafficking and related violence and organized crime, and for 
judicial reform, institution building, education, anti-
corruption, rule of law activities, and maritime security, of 
which not less than $21,100,000 should be made available for 
social justice and education programs to include vocational 
training, workforce development and juvenile justice 
activities: Provided, That none of the funds made available 
under this subsection shall be made available for budget 
support or as cash payments.
            (1) Spending plan.--Not later than 45 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
        a detailed spending plan for funds appropriated or 
        otherwise made available for the countries of the 
        Caribbean Basin by this Act, with concrete goals, 
        actions to be taken, budget proposals, and anticipated 
        results.
            (2) Definition.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``countries of the Caribbean 
        Basin'' means Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, 
        Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic, 
        Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, 
        Saint Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, 
        and Trinidad and Tobago.
    (d) Assistance for Guatemala.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'' not less than $4,000,000 shall be made 
        available for a United States contribution to the 
        International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala 
        (CICIG).
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Military Education and 
        Training'' (IMET) that are available for assistance for 
        Guatemala, other than for expanded IMET, may be made 
        available only for the Guatemalan Air Force, Navy and 
        Army Corps of Engineers: Provided, That assistance for 
        the Army Corps of Engineers shall only be available for 
        training to improve disaster response capabilities and 
        to participate in international peacekeeping 
        operations: Provided further, That such funds may be 
        made available only if the Secretary of State certifies 
        that the Air Force, Navy and Army Corps of Engineers 
        are respecting internationally recognized human rights 
        and cooperating with civilian judicial investigations 
        and prosecutions of current and retired military 
        personnel who have been credibly alleged to have 
        committed violations of such rights, and with the CICIG 
        by granting access to CICIG personnel, providing 
        evidence to CICIG, and allowing witness testimony.
            (3) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', not 
        more than $1,000,000 may be made available for the 
        Guatemalan Air Force, Navy and Army Corps of Engineers: 
        Provided, That assistance for the Army Corps of 
        Engineers shall only be available for training to 
        improve disaster response capabilities and to 
        participate in international peacekeeping operations: 
        Provided further, That such funds may be made available 
        only if the Secretary of State certifies that the Air 
        Force, Navy and Army Corps of Engineers are respecting 
        internationally recognized human rights and cooperating 
        with civilian judicial investigations and prosecutions 
        of current and retired military personnel who have been 
        credibly alleged to have committed violations of such 
        rights, including protecting and providing to the 
        Attorney General's office all military archives 
        pertaining to the internal armed conflict, and 
        cooperating with the CICIG by granting access to CICIG 
        personnel, providing evidence to CICIG, and allowing 
        witness testimony: Provided further, That funds made 
        available in this Act for regional naval cooperation 
        and maritime security assistance programs shall not be 
        subject to the funding limitation of this subsection.
    (e) Assistance for Mexico.--
            (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated under 
        the headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
        and ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act, not more 
        than $210,250,000 may be made available for assistance 
        for Mexico, only to combat drug trafficking and related 
        violence and organized crime, and for judicial reform, 
        institution building, anti-corruption, and rule of law 
        activities: Provided, That none of the funds made 
        available under this subsection shall be made available 
        for budget support or as cash payments.
            (2) Applicability of fiscal year 2009 provisions.--
        The provisions of paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 
        7045(e) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2009 (division 
        H of Public Law 111-8) shall apply to funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
        for assistance for Mexico to the same extent and in the 
        same manner as such provisions of law applied to funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by such other 
        Act for assistance for Mexico.
    (f) Assistance for the Countries of Central America.--Of 
the funds appropriated under the headings ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', up to 
$83,000,000 may be made available for assistance for the 
countries of Central America only to combat drug trafficking 
and related violence and organized crime, and for judicial 
reform, institution building, anti-corruption, rule of law 
activities, and maritime security: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall 
be made available through the United States Agency for 
International Development for continued support of an Economic 
and Social Development Fund for Central America: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this 
subsection shall be made available for budget support or as 
cash payments.
            (1) Applicability of fiscal year 2009 provisions.--
        The provisions of paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 
        7045(f) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2009 (division 
        H of Public Law 111-8) shall apply to funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
        for assistance for countries of Central America to the 
        same extent and in the same manner as such provisions 
        of law applied to funds appropriated or otherwise made 
        available by such other Act for assistance for the 
        countries of Central America.
            (2) Definition.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``countries of Central America'' 
        means Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, 
        Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.
    (g) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum 
extent practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, 
including fuel, of aircraft funded by this Act should be borne 
by the recipient country.
    (h) Pilot Project.--Not later than June 30, 2011, the 
Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the feasibility of extending the use of 
passport cards as proof of identity and citizenship for the 
purposes of international travel by nationals of the United 
States, Canada, and Mexico to air ports of entry between the 
United States and Canada and between the United States and 
Mexico: Provided, That the report shall detail all relevant 
security, infrastructure, budget, policy, or diplomatic 
implications that may arise from extending such use of passport 
cards: Provided further, That the Secretary shall use up to 
$100,000 of the funds made available under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' in this Act for a pilot 
project to test the feasibility of such use of passport cards 
at selected air ports of entry between the United States and 
Canada.

                                colombia

    Sec. 7046. (a) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated under 
the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, 
Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', 
``International Military Education and Training'', and 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'' in this Act, not more 
than $521,880,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
Colombia.
    Funds appropriated by this Act and made available to the 
Department of State for assistance to the Government of 
Colombia may be used to support a unified campaign against 
narcotics trafficking and organizations designated as Foreign 
Terrorist Organizations and successor organizations, and to 
take actions to protect human health and welfare in emergency 
circumstances, including undertaking rescue operations: 
Provided, That assistance made available in prior Acts for the 
Government of Colombia to protect the Cano-Limon pipeline may 
also be used for purposes for which funds are made available 
under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'' in this Act: Provided further, That no United 
States Armed Forces personnel or United States civilian 
contractor employed by the United States will participate in 
any combat operation in connection with assistance made 
available by this Act for Colombia: Provided further, That 
rotary and fixed wing aircraft supported with funds 
appropriated under the heading ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'' for assistance for Colombia may 
be used for aerial or manual drug eradication and interdiction 
including to transport personnel and supplies and to provide 
security for such operations, and to provide transport in 
support of alternative development programs and investigations 
of cases under the jurisdiction of the Attorney General, the 
Procuraduria General de la Nacion, and the Defensoria del 
Pueblo: Provided further, That the President shall ensure that 
if any helicopter procured with funds in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, is used to aid or abet the 
operations of any illegal self-defense group, paramilitary 
organization, illegal security cooperative or successor 
organizations in Colombia, such helicopter shall be immediately 
returned to the United States: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs may be made available for assistance for 
the Colombian Departamento Administrativo de Seguridad.
    Of the funds available under the heading ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' for the Colombian 
national police for the procurement of chemicals for aerial 
coca and poppy eradication programs, not more than 20 percent 
of such funds may be made available for such eradication 
programs unless the Secretary of State certifies to the 
Committees on Appropriations that: (1) the herbicide is being 
used in accordance with Environmental Protection Agency label 
requirements for comparable use in the United States and with 
Colombian laws; and (2) the herbicide, in the manner it is 
being used, does not pose unreasonable risks or adverse effects 
to humans or the environment, including endemic species: 
Provided, That such funds may not be made available unless the 
Secretary of State certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that any complaints of harm to health or licit 
crops caused by such aerial eradication are thoroughly 
investigated and evaluated, and fair compensation is being paid 
in a timely manner for meritorious claims: Provided further, 
That such funds may not be made available for such purposes 
unless programs are being implemented by the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Government of 
Colombia, or other organizations, in consultation and 
coordination with local communities, to provide alternative 
sources of income in areas where security permits for small-
acreage growers and communities whose illicit crops are 
targeted for aerial eradication: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for Colombia 
shall be made available for the cultivation or processing of 
African oil palm, if doing so would contribute to significant 
loss of native species, disrupt or contaminate natural water 
sources, reduce local food security, or cause the forced 
displacement of local people: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this Act may not be used for aerial eradication 
in Colombia's national parks or reserves unless the Secretary 
of State certifies to the Committees on Appropriations on a 
case-by-case basis that there are no effective alternatives and 
the eradication is conducted in accordance with Colombian laws.
    (b) Applicability of Fiscal Year 2009 Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), the provisions of subsections (b) through (f) of 
        section 7046 of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
        2009 (division H of Public Law 111-8) shall apply to 
        funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
        Act for assistance for Colombia to the same extent and 
        in the same manner as such provisions of law applied to 
        funds appropriated or otherwise made available by such 
        other Act for assistance for Colombia.
            (2) Exceptions.--The following provisions of 
        section 7046 of division H of Public Law 111-8 shall 
        apply to funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
        by this Act for assistance for Colombia as follows:
                    (A) Subsection (b)(1)(B) is amended by 
                striking clause (iv) and inserting the 
                following:
                            ``(iv) That the Government of 
                        Colombia is respecting the rights of 
                        human rights defenders, journalists, 
                        trade unionists, political opposition 
                        and religious leaders, and indigenous 
                        and Afro-Colombian communities, and the 
                        Colombian Armed Forces are implementing 
                        procedures to distinguish between 
                        civilians, including displaced persons, 
                        and combatants in their operations.''.
                    (B) Subsection (b)(2) is amended by 
                striking ``July 31, 2009'' and inserting ``July 
                31, 2010''.
                    (C) Subsection (b)(3) is amended by 
                striking ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' and 
                inserting ``International Narcotics Control and 
                Law Enforcement''.
                    (D) Subsection (c) is amended by striking 
                ``September 30, 2009'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 2010''.
                    (E) Subsection (d)(1) is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``$16,769,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$18,606,000''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``fiscal year 
                        2009'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
                        2010''.

                   community-based police assistance

    Sec. 7047. (a) Authority.--Funds made available by titles 
III and IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 1 
of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, notwithstanding section 
660 of that Act, to enhance the effectiveness and 
accountability of civilian police authority through training 
and technical assistance in human rights, the rule of law, 
anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through assistance to 
foster civilian police roles that support democratic governance 
including assistance for programs to prevent conflict, respond 
to disasters, address gender-based violence, and foster 
improved police relations with the communities they serve.
    (b) Notification.--Assistance provided under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 7048.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for 
carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used to 
pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by 
this Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the costs for participation of another 
country's delegation at international conferences held under 
the auspices of multilateral or international organizations.

                     war crimes tribunals drawdown

    Sec. 7049.  If the President determines that doing so will 
contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide 
or other violations of international humanitarian law, the 
President may direct a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of up to $30,000,000 of 
commodities and services for the United Nations War Crimes 
Tribunal established with regard to the former Yugoslavia by 
the United Nations Security Council or such other tribunals or 
commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to deal 
with such violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the 
determination required under this section shall be in lieu of 
any determinations otherwise required under section 552(c): 
Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to this 
section shall be made available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                         peacekeeping missions

    Sec. 7050.  None of the funds made available under title I 
of this Act may be used for any United Nations activity when it 
is made known to the Federal official having authority to 
obligate or expend such funds that: (1) the United Nations 
activity is a peacekeeping mission; (2) such activity will 
involve United States Armed Forces under the command or 
operational control of a foreign national; and (3) the 
President's military advisors have not submitted to the 
President a recommendation that such involvement is in the 
national interests of the United States and the President has 
not submitted to the Congress such a recommendation.

                        peacekeeping assessment

    Sec. 7051.  Section 404(b)(2)(B) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 287e 
note) is amended by adding the following:
                            ``(vi) For assessments made during 
                        calendar year 2010, 27.3 percent.''.

                  united nations human rights council

    Sec. 7052.  The Secretary of State shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 30 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter 
until September 30, 2010, on the resolutions adopted in the 
United Nations Human Rights Council.

                attendance at international conferences

    Sec. 7053.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
than 50 employees of agencies or departments of the United 
States Government who are stationed in the United States, at 
any single international conference occurring outside the 
United States, unless the Secretary of State reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that such attendance is in the 
national interest: Provided, That for purposes of this section 
the term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference 
attended by representatives of the United States Government and 
of foreign governments, international organizations, or 
nongovernmental organizations.

               restrictions on united nations delegations

    Sec. 7054.  None of the funds made available under title I 
of this Act may be used to pay expenses for any United States 
delegation to any specialized agency, body, or commission of 
the United Nations if such commission is chaired or presided 
over by a country, the government of which the Secretary of 
State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), 
supports international terrorism.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

    Sec. 7055. (a) Subject to subsection (c), of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI by this Act that are 
made available for assistance for a foreign country, an amount 
equal to 110 percent of the total amount of the unpaid fully 
adjudicated parking fines and penalties and unpaid property 
taxes owed by the central government of such country shall be 
withheld from obligation for assistance for the central 
government of such country until the Secretary of State submits 
a certification to the Committees on Appropriations stating 
that such parking fines and penalties and unpaid property taxes 
are fully paid.
    (b) Funds withheld from obligation pursuant to subsection 
(a) may be made available for other programs or activities 
funded by this Act, after consultation with and subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, provided that no such funds shall be made 
available for assistance for the central government of a 
foreign country that has not paid the total amount of the fully 
adjudicated parking fines and penalties and unpaid property 
taxes owed by such country.
    (c) Subsection (a) shall not include amounts that have been 
withheld under any other provision of law.
    (d)(1) The Secretary of State may waive the requirements 
set forth in subsection (a) with respect to parking fines and 
penalties no sooner than 60 days from the date of enactment of 
this Act, or at any time with respect to a particular country, 
if the Secretary determines that it is in the national 
interests of the United States to do so.
    (2) The Secretary of State may waive the requirements set 
forth in subsection (a) with respect to the unpaid property 
taxes if the Secretary of State determines that it is in the 
national interests of the United States to do so.
    (e) Not later than 6 months after the initial exercise of 
the waiver authority in subsection (d), the Secretary of State, 
after consultations with the City of New York, shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations describing a 
strategy, including a timetable and steps currently being 
taken, to collect the parking fines and penalties and unpaid 
property taxes and interest owed by nations receiving foreign 
assistance under this Act.
    (f) In this section:
            (1) The term ``fully adjudicated'' includes 
        circumstances in which the person to whom the vehicle 
        is registered--
                    (A)(i) has not responded to the parking 
                violation summons; or
                    (ii) has not followed the appropriate 
                adjudication procedure to challenge the 
                summons; and
                    (B) the period of time for payment of or 
                challenge to the summons has lapsed.
            (2) The term ``parking fines and penalties'' means 
        parking fines and penalties--
                    (A) owed to--
                            (i) the District of Columbia; or
                            (ii) New York, New York; and
                    (B) incurred during the period April 1, 
                1997, through September 30, 2009.
            (3) The term ``unpaid property taxes'' means the 
        amount of unpaid taxes and interest determined to be 
        owed by a foreign country on real property in the 
        District of Columbia or New York, New York in a court 
        order or judgment entered against such country by a 
        court of the United States or any State or subdivision 
        thereof.

                    landmines and cluster munitions

    Sec. 7056. (a) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, demining equipment available to the United 
States Agency for International Development and the Department 
of State and used in support of the clearance of landmines and 
unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes may be disposed 
of on a grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms 
and conditions as the President may prescribe.
    (b) Cluster Munitions.--No military assistance shall be 
furnished for cluster munitions, no defense export license for 
cluster munitions may be issued, and no cluster munitions or 
cluster munitions technology shall be sold or transferred, 
unless--
            (1) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, 
        after arming, do not result in more than 1 percent 
        unexploded ordnance across the range of intended 
        operational environments; and
            (2) the agreement applicable to the assistance, 
        transfer, or sale of such cluster munitions or cluster 
        munitions technology specifies that the cluster 
        munitions will only be used against clearly defined 
        military targets and will not be used where civilians 
        are known to be present or in areas normally inhabited 
        by civilians.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 7057.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within 
the United States not authorized before the date of the 
enactment of this Act by the Congress: Provided, That not to 
exceed $25,000 may be made available to carry out the 
provisions of section 316 of Public Law 96-533.

                    limitation on residence expenses

    Sec. 7058.  Of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to title II of this Act, not to exceed $100,500 shall 
be for official residence expenses of the United States Agency 
for International Development during the current fiscal year: 
Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure that, 
to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

     united states agency for international development management

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 7059. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds 
made available in title III of this Act to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
including funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be used by the United 
States Agency for International Development (USAID) to hire and 
employ individuals in the United States and overseas on a 
limited appointment basis pursuant to the authority of sections 
308 and 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980.
    (b) Restrictions.--
            (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal 
        year pursuant to the authority contained in subsection 
        (a) may not exceed 175.
            (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
        subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2011.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) may only 
be used to the extent that an equivalent number of positions 
that are filled by personal services contractors or other non-
direct hire employees of USAID, who are compensated with funds 
appropriated to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, including funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', are 
eliminated.
    (d) Priority Sectors.--In exercising the authority of this 
section, primary emphasis shall be placed on enabling USAID to 
meet personnel positions in technical skill areas currently 
encumbered by contractor or other non-direct hire personnel.
    (e) Consultations.--The USAID Administrator shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations on a quarterly basis 
concerning the implementation of this section.
    (f) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the 
cost of an individual hired and employed under the authority of 
this section shall be the account to which such individual's 
responsibilities primarily relate: Provided, That funds made 
available to carry out this section may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated by this Act in title II under 
the heading ``Operating Expenses''.
    (g) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired 
and employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act or 
prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs, pursuant to the 
authority of section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, 
may be extended for a period of up to 4 years notwithstanding 
the limitation set forth in such section.
    (h) Junior Officer Placement Authority.--Of the funds made 
available in subsection (a), USAID may use, in addition to 
funds otherwise available for such purposes, up to $15,000,000 
to fund overseas support costs of members of the Foreign 
Service with a Foreign Service rank of four or below: Provided, 
That such authority is only used to reduce USAID's reliance on 
overseas personal services contractors or other non-direct hire 
employees compensated with funds appropriated to carry out part 
I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia''.
    (i) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under 
title III of this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
may be used, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) of 
individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
responsibility is to carry out programs in response to natural 
disasters.
    (j) Technical Advisors.--Up to $13,500,000 of the funds 
made available by this Act in title III for assistance under 
the heading ``Global Health and Child Survival'', may be used 
to reimburse United States Government agencies, agencies of 
State governments, institutions of higher learning, and private 
and voluntary organizations for the full cost of individuals 
(including for the personal services of such individuals) 
detailed or assigned to, or contracted by, as the case may be, 
USAID for the purpose of carrying out activities under that 
heading: Provided, That up to $3,500,000 of the funds made 
available by this Act for assistance under the heading 
``Development Assistance'' may be used to reimburse such 
agencies, institutions, and organizations for such costs of 
such individuals carrying out other development assistance 
activities.
    (k) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part 
II, and section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and 
title II of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance 
Act of 1954, may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 personal 
services contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for the purpose of providing direct, 
interim support for new or expanded overseas programs and 
activities managed by the agency until permanent direct hire 
personnel are hired and trained: Provided, That not more than 
10 of such contractors shall be assigned to any bureau or 
office: Provided further, That not more than 15 of such 
contractors shall be for activities related to USAID's 
Afghanistan program: Provided further, That such funds 
appropriated to carry out title II of the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954, may be made available 
only for personal services contractors assigned to the Office 
of Food for Peace.
    (l) Hiring Authority.--Notwithstanding section 307 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, the USAID Administrator may hire 
up to 30 individuals under the Development Leadership 
Initiative: Provided, That the authority contained in this 
subsection shall expire on September 30, 2011.
    (m) Recruitment Strategy.--Funds made available under the 
heading ``Operating Expenses'' in title II of this Act may be 
made available to implement the strategy described in section 
7059(1) of Public Law 111-8, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (n) Locally Employed Staff.--Of the funds appropriated 
under title II of this Act, up to $1,000,000, in addition to 
funds otherwise made available for such purposes, may be made 
available for special compensation for overseas, locally 
employed staff.
    (o) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--Pursuant 
to the authority of section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980, and notwithstanding the limitation set forth in section 
305 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended, USAID may 
appoint into the Senior Foreign Service and employ up to 10 
individuals to be assigned to or support programs in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, or Pakistan with funds made available in this Act 
and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs.

                        global health activities

    Sec. 7060.  Funds appropriated by titles III and IV of this 
Act that are made available for bilateral assistance for child 
survival activities or disease programs including activities 
relating to research on, and the prevention, treatment and 
control of, HIV/AIDS may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law except for the provisions under the 
heading ``Global Health and Child Survival'' and the United 
States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria 
Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as 
amended: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under title 
III of this Act, not less than $648,457,000 should be made 
available for family planning/reproductive health, including in 
areas where population growth threatens biodiversity or 
endangered species.

                       development grants program

    Sec. 7061.  Of the funds appropriated in title III of this 
Act, not less than $40,000,000 shall be made available for the 
Development Grants Program established pursuant to section 674 
of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2008 (division J of Public Law 
110-161), to support grants of not more than $2,000,000 to 
small nongovernmental organizations: Provided, That funds made 
available under this section are in addition to other funds 
available for such purposes including funds designated by this 
Act by section 7065.

                          women in development

    Sec. 7062. (a) Programs funded under title III of this Act 
shall include, where appropriate, gender considerations in the 
planning, assessment, implementation, monitoring and evaluation 
of such programs.
    (b) Funds made available under title III of this Act shall 
be made available to support programs to enhance economic 
opportunities for poor women in developing countries, including 
increasing the number and capacity of women-owned enterprises, 
improving property rights for women, increasing access to 
financial services, and improving women's ability to 
participate in the global economy.
    (c) Funds made available under title III of this Act for 
food security and agricultural development shall take into 
consideration the unique needs of women, and technical 
assistance for women farmers should be a priority.

                         gender-based violence

    Sec. 7063. (a) Funds appropriated under the headings 
``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' in this 
Act shall be made available for programs to address sexual and 
gender-based violence.
    (b) Programs and activities funded under titles III and IV 
of this Act that provide training for foreign police, judicial, 
and military officials shall address, where appropriate, 
gender-based violence.

                               education

    Sec. 7064. (a) Basic Education.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by title III of this 
        Act, not less than $925,000,000 should be made 
        available for assistance for basic education, of which 
        not less than $365,000,000 shall be made available 
        under the heading ``Development Assistance''.
            (2) There shall continue to be a Coordinator of 
        United States Government Actions to Provide Basic 
        Education Assistance in developing countries as 
        established in section 664 of division J of Public Law 
        110-161.
            (3) The United States Agency for International 
        Development shall ensure that programs supported with 
        funds appropriated for basic education in this Act and 
        prior Acts are integrated, when appropriate, with 
        health, agriculture, governance, and economic 
        development activities to address the economic and 
        social needs of the broader community.
    (b) Higher Education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
III of this Act, not less than $200,000,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for higher education, of which not 
less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for such 
assistance for Africa including not less than $15,000,000 to 
support partnerships between African and United States 
institutions of higher education.

                        reconciliation programs

    Sec. 7065.  Of the funds appropriated by title III of this 
Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
``Development Assistance'', $26,000,000 shall be made available 
for such people to people reconciliation programs which bring 
together individuals of different ethnic, religious and 
political backgrounds from areas of civil strife and war, of 
which $10,000,000 shall be made available for such programs in 
the Middle East: Provided, That the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development shall consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations, prior to the initial 
obligation of funds, on the most effective uses of such funds.

                   comprehensive expenditures report

    Sec. 7066.  Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing the total 
amount of United States Government expenditures in fiscal years 
2008 and 2009, by Federal agency, for assistance programs and 
activities in each foreign country, identifying the line item 
as presented in the President's Budget Appendix and the purpose 
for which the funds were provided: Provided, That if required, 
information may be submitted in classified form.

                         requests for documents

    Sec. 7067.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall 
be available to a nongovernmental organization, including any 
contractor, which fails to provide upon timely request any 
document, file, or record necessary to the auditing 
requirements of the United States Agency for International 
Development.

                     senior policy operating group

    Sec. 7068. (a) The Senior Policy Operating Group on 
Trafficking in Persons, established under section 105(f) of the 
Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22 
U.S.C. 7103(f)) to coordinate agency activities regarding 
policies (including grants and grant policies) involving the 
international trafficking in persons, shall coordinate all such 
policies related to the activities of traffickers and victims 
of severe forms of trafficking.
    (b) None of the funds provided under title I of this or any 
other Act making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs shall be expended to 
perform functions that duplicate coordinating responsibilities 
of the Operating Group.
    (c) The Operating Group shall continue to report only to 
the authorities that appointed them pursuant to section 105(f).

                     prohibition on use of torture

    Sec. 7069.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture, cruel or inhumane treatment by any official or 
contract employee of the United States Government.

                                 africa

    Sec. 7070. (a) Expanded International Military Education 
and Training.--
            (1) Funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``International Military Education and Training'' in 
        this Act that are made available for assistance for 
        Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Cote 
        d'Ivoire, Guinea and Zimbabwe may be made available 
        only for training related to international peacekeeping 
        operations and expanded international military 
        education and training: Provided, That the limitation 
        included in this paragraph shall not apply to courses 
        that support training in maritime security for Angola 
        and Cameroon.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated under the 
        heading ``International Military Education and 
        Training'' in this Act may be made available for 
        assistance for Equatorial Guinea or Somalia.
    (b) Counterterrorism Programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining, 
and Related Programs'', and ``Peacekeeping Operations'' shall 
be made available as follows:
            (1) Not less than $24,735,000 shall be made 
        available for the East Africa Regional Strategic 
        Initiative;
            (2) Not less than $3,600,000 shall be made 
        available for Africa Conflict Stabilization and Border 
        Security;
            (3) Not less than $81,315,000 shall be made 
        available for Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism 
        Partnership; and
            (4) Not less than $10,000,000 shall be made 
        available for a Horn of Africa and Pan Sahel Program, 
        in addition to funds otherwise made available for such 
        purposes, to be administered by the United States 
        Agency for International Development.
    (c) Ethiopia.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' that are available for assistance for 
        Ethiopia may be made available unless the Secretary of 
        State--
                    (A) determines that the Government of 
                Ethiopia is taking effective measures to 
                guarantee the rights of its citizens to 
                peaceful expression, association and assembly, 
                and to document violations of internationally 
                recognized human rights without harassment or 
                criminal penalty, and provides such 
                determination in writing to the Committees on 
                Appropriations; and
                    (B) submits a report to such Committees on 
                the types and amounts of United States training 
                and equipment provided to the Ethiopian 
                military including steps being taken to ensure 
                that such assistance is not provided to 
                Ethiopian military units or personnel with 
                records of violations of internationally 
                recognized human rights.
            (2) The restriction in paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply to assistance to support the deployment of 
        members of the Ethiopian military in international 
        peacekeeping operations.
    (d) Rwanda.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Rwanda if the Secretary of State has credible evidence 
        that the Government of Rwanda is providing political, 
        military or financial support to armed groups in the 
        Democratic Republic of the Congo that have committed 
        violations of internationally recognized human rights, 
        including rape.
            (2) The restriction in paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply to assistance to improve border controls to 
        prevent the importation of minerals into Rwanda by such 
        groups, or to support the deployment of members of the 
        Rwandan military in international peacekeeping 
        operations.
    (e) Natural Resource Transparency.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act that are available for assistance for Liberia, Sierra 
Leone, Nigeria, Cote d'Ivoire, and the countries participating 
in the Congo Basin Forest Partnership shall be made available 
to promote and support transparency and accountability in 
relation to the extraction of timber, oil and gas, cacao and 
other natural resources, including by strengthening 
implementation and monitoring of the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative and the Kimberley Process Certification 
Scheme.
    (f) Sudan Limitation on Assistance.--
            (1) Subject to subsection (2):
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                may be made available for assistance for the 
                Government of Sudan.
                    (B) None of the funds appropriated by this 
                Act may be made available for the cost, as 
                defined in section 502, of the Congressional 
                Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan 
                guarantees held by the Government of Sudan, 
                including the cost of selling, reducing, or 
                canceling amounts owed to the United States, 
                and modifying concessional loans, guarantees, 
                and credit agreements.
            (2) Subsection (f)(1) shall not apply if the 
        Secretary of State determines and certifies to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that:
                    (A) The Government of Sudan honors its 
                pledges to cease attacks upon civilians and 
                disarms and demobilizes the Janjaweed and other 
                government-supported militias;
                    (B) The Government of Sudan and all 
                government-supported militia groups are 
                honoring their commitments made in all previous 
                cease-fire agreements; and
                    (C) The Government of Sudan is allowing 
                unimpeded access to Darfur to humanitarian aid 
                organizations, the human rights investigation 
                and humanitarian teams of the United Nations, 
                including protection officers, and an 
                international monitoring team that is based in 
                Darfur and has the support of the United 
                States.
            (3) The provisions of subsection (f)(1) shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance for the Darfur region, 
                Southern Sudan, Southern Kordofan/Nuba 
                Mountains State, Blue Nile State, and Abyei; 
                and
                    (C) assistance to support implementation of 
                the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the 
                Darfur Peace Agreement or any other 
                internationally-recognized viable peace 
                agreement in Sudan.
            (4) For the purposes of this Act, the term 
        ``Government of Sudan'' shall not include the 
        Government of Southern Sudan.
            (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        assistance in this Act may be made available to the 
        Government of Southern Sudan to provide non-lethal 
        military assistance, military education and training, 
        and defense services controlled under the International 
        Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR 120.1 et seq.) if 
        the Secretary of State--
                    (A) determines that the provision of such 
                items is in the national interest of the United 
                States; and
                    (B) not later than 15 days before the 
                provision of any such assistance, notifies the 
                Committees on Appropriations of such 
                determination.
    (g) Southern Sudan.--The Secretary of State shall seek to 
obtain regular audits of the financial accounts of the 
Government of Southern Sudan to ensure transparency and 
accountability of funds, including revenues from the extraction 
of oil and gas, and the public disclosure of such audits in a 
timely manner: Provided, That in determining amounts and types 
of United States assistance to make available to the Government 
of Southern Sudan, the Secretary shall consider the extent to 
which such government is ensuring transparency and 
accountability of funds: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall, as appropriate, assist the Government of Southern Sudan 
in conducting such audits, and shall submit a report not later 
than 90 days after enactment of this Act to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the steps that will be taken by the 
Government of Southern Sudan to improve resource management and 
ensure transparency and accountability of funds.
    (h) War Crimes in Africa.--
            (1) The Congress reaffirms its support for the 
        efforts of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
        Rwanda (ICTR) and the Special Court for Sierra Leone 
        (SCSL) to bring to justice individuals responsible for 
        war crimes and crimes against humanity in a timely 
        manner.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act, including funds 
        for debt restructuring, may be made available for 
        assistance for the central government of a country in 
        which individuals indicted by ICTR and SCSL are 
        credibly alleged to be living, if the Secretary of 
        State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is cooperating with 
        ICTR and SCSL, including the surrender and transfer of 
        indictees in a timely manner: Provided, That this 
        subsection shall not apply to assistance provided under 
        section 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or to 
        project assistance under title VI of this Act: Provided 
        further, That the United States shall use its voice and 
        vote in the United Nations Security Council to fully 
        support efforts by ICTR and SCSL to bring to justice 
        individuals indicted by such tribunals in a timely 
        manner.
            (3) The prohibition in subsection (2) may be waived 
        on a country-by-country basis if the President 
        determines that doing so is in the national security 
        interest of the United States: Provided, That prior to 
        exercising such waiver authority, the President shall 
        submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations, in 
        classified form if necessary, on--
                    (A) the steps being taken to obtain the 
                cooperation of the government in surrendering 
                the indictee in question to the court of 
                jurisdiction;
                    (B) a strategy, including a timeline, for 
                bringing the indictee before such court; and
                    (C) the justification for exercising the 
                waiver authority.
    (i) Zimbabwe.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
        the United States executive director to each 
        international financial institution to vote against any 
        extension by the respective institution of any loans to 
        the Government of Zimbabwe, except to meet basic human 
        needs or to promote democracy, unless the Secretary of 
        State determines and reports in writing to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that the rule of law has 
        been restored in Zimbabwe, including respect for 
        ownership and title to property, freedom of speech and 
        association.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        shall be made available for assistance for the central 
        government of Zimbabwe, except for macroeconomic growth 
        assistance, unless the Secretary of State makes the 
        determination pursuant to paragraph (1).

                                  asia

    Sec. 7071. (a) Tibet.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct 
        the United States executive director to each 
        international financial institution to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support projects in 
        Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for 
        the migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet 
        or facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land 
        and natural resources to non-Tibetans; are based on a 
        thorough needs-assessment; foster self-sufficiency of 
        the Tibetan people and respect Tibetan culture and 
        traditions; and are subject to effective monitoring.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
        less than $7,400,000 of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' should 
        be made available to nongovernmental organizations to 
        support activities which preserve cultural traditions 
        and promote sustainable development and environmental 
        conservation in Tibetan communities in the Tibetan 
        Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan communities in 
        China.
    (b) Burma.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
        the United States executive director to each 
        appropriate international financial institution in 
        which the United States participates, to oppose and 
        vote against the extension by such institution of any 
        loan or financial or technical assistance or any other 
        utilization of funds of the respective bank to and for 
        Burma.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $36,500,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
        Burma: Provided, That such assistance shall be made 
        available only to support democracy and humanitarian 
        programs and activities in Burma, programs and 
        activities along the Burma-Thailand border, programs 
        and activities involving Burmese student groups and 
        other organizations located outside Burma, and 
        humanitarian assistance for displaced Burmese along 
        Burma's borders: Provided further, That such funds may 
        be made available notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law: Provided further, That in addition to 
        assistance for Burmese refugees provided under the 
        heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' in this 
        Act, not less than $4,000,000 shall be made available 
        for community-based organizations operating in Thailand 
        to provide food, medical and other humanitarian 
        assistance to internally displaced persons in eastern 
        Burma.
            (3) Funds made available under paragraph (2) for 
        any new program, project or activity shall be subject 
        to prior consultation with the Committees on 
        Appropriations and all such funds made available under 
        paragraph (2) shall be subject to the regular 
        notification procedures of such Committees: Provided, 
        That when implementing activities with funds 
        appropriated by this Act for assistance for Burma, the 
        implementing agency shall only support activities that 
        are consistent with the principles and goals of the 
        National League for Democracy in Burma.
    (c) Cambodia.--Funds made available in this Act for a 
United States contribution to a Khmer Rouge tribunal may only 
be made available if the Secretary of State certifies to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the United Nations and the 
Government of Cambodia are taking credible steps to address 
allegations of corruption and mismanagement within the 
tribunal.
    (d) Indonesia.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', not to 
        exceed $20,000,000 shall be made available for 
        assistance for Indonesia, of which $2,000,000 is 
        withheld from obligation until the Secretary of State 
        submits to the Committees on Appropriations the report 
        on Indonesia detailed under such heading in the joint 
        explanatory statement accompanying this Act.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are available 
        for assistance for Indonesia, not less than $400,000 
        should be made available for grants for capacity 
        building of Indonesian human rights organizations, 
        including in Papua.
    (e) Nepal.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may be 
        made available for assistance for Nepal if the 
        Secretary of State certifies to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that the Nepal Army is--
                    (A) cooperating fully with investigations 
                and prosecutions by civilian judicial 
                authorities of violations of internationally 
                recognized human rights; and
                    (B) working constructively to redefine the 
                Nepal Army's mission and adjust its size 
                accordingly, implement reforms including 
                strengthening the capacity of the civilian 
                ministry of defense to improve budget 
                transparency and accountability, and facilitate 
                the integration of former rebel combatants into 
                the security forces, including the Nepal Army, 
                consistent with the goals of reconciliation, 
                peace and stability.
            (2) The conditions in paragraph (1) shall not apply 
        to assistance to support the deployment of members of 
        the Nepal Army in humanitarian relief and 
        reconstruction operations in Nepal.
    (f) North Korea.--
            (1) Funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' in this Act shall 
        be made available for assistance for refugees from 
        North Korea.
            (2) Of the funds made available under the heading 
        ``International Broadcasting Operations'' in title I of 
        this Act, up to $8,000,000 should be made available for 
        broadcasts into North Korea.
            (3) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $3,500,000 shall be 
        made available for democracy, human rights, and 
        governance programs for North Korea.
            (4) None of the funds made available by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made 
        available for energy-related assistance for North 
        Korea.
            (5) Funds made available by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for 
        countries in the North Asia region may be made 
        available for programs and activities pursuant to 
        section 4 of Public Law 108-333, as amended, and 
        subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That for the 
        purposes of this subsection, such programs and 
        activities shall be considered democracy promotion.
            (6) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations the amount the Secretary 
        determines the Government of North Korea owes the 
        Government of the United States for the unsupervised 
        distribution of food assistance provided by the United 
        States: Provided, That the Secretary of State should 
        reduce any assistance made available to the Government 
        of North Korea by such amount, unless the Secretary 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
        Government of North Korea provided such food assistance 
        to eligible recipients as intended, or that North Korea 
        has reimbursed the Government of the United States for 
        the costs of such food assistance: Provided further, 
        That the previous proviso shall not apply to programs 
        and activities that promote human rights, democracy, 
        rule of law, and to humanitarian assistance.
    (g) People's Republic of China.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated under the 
        heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' in this 
        Act may be obligated or expended for processing 
        licenses for the export of satellites of United States 
        origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
        components) to the People's Republic of China unless, 
        at least 15 days in advance, the Committees on 
        Appropriations are notified of such proposed action.
            (2) The terms and requirements of section 620(h) of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to 
        foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
        People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the People's Republic 
        of China, to include such projects or activities by any 
        entity that is owned or controlled by, or an affiliate 
        of, the PLA: Provided, That none of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to 
        this Act may be used to finance any grant, contract, or 
        cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any entity that 
        the Secretary of State has reason to believe is owned 
        or controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
            (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and 
        subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations, of the funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Development 
        Assistance'', not less than $12,000,000 shall be made 
        available to United States educational institutions and 
        nongovernmental organizations for programs and 
        activities in the People's Republic of China relating 
        to the environment, governance, and the rule of law.
    (h) Philippines.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', not 
to exceed $32,000,000 may be made available for assistance for 
the Philippines, of which $3,000,000 may not be obligated until 
the Secretary of State submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations the report on the Philippines detailed under 
such heading in the joint explanatory statement accompanying 
this Act.
    (i) Timor-Leste.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
$1,000,000, in addition to funds otherwise made available for 
such purposes, shall be made available for democracy programs 
and activities in Timor-Leste, and not less than $2,000,000 
shall be made available for higher education scholarships.
    (j) Vietnam.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
available for assistance for Vietnam for remediation of dioxin 
contaminated sites and related health activities may be made 
available for assistance for the Government of Vietnam, 
including the military, for such purposes.

                                 serbia

    Sec. 7072. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available for assistance for the central Government of Serbia 
after May 31, 2010, if the President has made the determination 
and certification contained in subsection (c).
    (b) After May 31, 2010, the Secretary of the Treasury 
should instruct the United States executive directors to the 
international financial institutions to support loans and 
assistance to the Government of Serbia subject to the 
conditions in subsection (c).
    (c) The determination and certification referred to in 
subsection (a) is a determination and a certification by the 
President to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
Government of Serbia is--
            (1) cooperating with the International Criminal 
        Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia including access for 
        investigators, the provision of documents, timely 
        information on the location, movement, and sources of 
        financial support of indictees, and the surrender and 
        transfer of indictees or assistance in their 
        apprehension, including Ratko Mladic;
            (2) taking steps that are consistent with the 
        Dayton Accords to end Serbian financial, political, 
        security and other support which has served to maintain 
        separate Republika Srpska institutions; and
            (3) taking steps to implement policies which 
        reflect a respect for minority rights and the rule of 
        law.
    (d) This section shall not apply to humanitarian assistance 
or assistance to promote democracy.

             independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 7073. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
shall be made available for assistance for a government of an 
Independent State of the former Soviet Union if that government 
directs any action in violation of the territorial integrity or 
national sovereignty of any other Independent State of the 
former Soviet Union, such as those violations included in the 
Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made 
available without regard to the restriction in this subsection 
if the President determines that to do so is in the national 
security interest of the United States.
    (b) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' for the Russian Federation, 
Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (c)(1) Of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
allocated for assistance for the Government of the Russian 
Federation, 60 percent shall be withheld from obligation until 
the President determines and certifies in writing to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Government of the Russian 
Federation--
            (A) has terminated implementation of arrangements 
        to provide Iran with technical expertise, training, 
        technology, or equipment necessary to develop a nuclear 
        reactor, related nuclear research facilities or 
        programs, or ballistic missile capability; and
            (B) is providing full access to international non-
        government organizations providing humanitarian relief 
        to refugees and internally displaced persons in 
        Chechnya.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
            (A) assistance to combat infectious diseases, child 
        survival activities, or assistance for victims of 
        trafficking in persons; and
            (B) activities authorized under title V 
        (Nonproliferation and Disarmament Programs and 
        Activities) of the FREEDOM Support Act.
    (d) Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply 
to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance 
        under title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 
        1424 of Public Law 104-201 or non-proliferation 
        assistance;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and 
        Development Agency under section 661 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the 
        United States and Foreign Commercial Service while 
        acting within his or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et 
        seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import 
        Bank Act of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

                  repression in the russian federation

    Sec. 7074. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' in 
this Act may be made available for the Government of the 
Russian Federation, after 180 days from the date of the 
enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary of State certifies 
to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of the 
Russian Federation:
            (1) has implemented no statute, Executive order, 
        regulation or similar government action that would 
        discriminate, or which has as its principal effect 
        discrimination, against religious groups or religious 
        communities in the Russian Federation in violation of 
        accepted international agreements on human rights and 
        religious freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a 
        party;
            (2) is honoring its international obligations 
        regarding freedom of expression, assembly, and press, 
        as well as due process;
            (3) is investigating and prosecuting law 
        enforcement personnel credibly alleged to have 
        committed human rights abuses against political 
        leaders, activists and journalists; and
            (4) is immediately releasing political leaders, 
        activists and journalists who remain in detention.
    (b) The Secretary of State may waive the requirements of 
subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that to do so is 
important to the national interests of the United States.

                              central asia

    Sec. 7075.  The terms and conditions of sections 7075(a) 
and (b) and 7076(a) through (e) of the Department of State, 
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2009 (division H of Public Law 111-8) shall apply to funds 
appropriated by this Act: Provided, That for purposes of the 
application of section 7076(e) to this Act, the term 
``assistance'' shall not include expanded international 
military education and training.

                              afghanistan

    Sec. 7076. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
that are available for assistance for Afghanistan shall be made 
available, to the maximum extent practicable, in a manner that 
utilizes Afghan entities and emphasizes the participation and 
leadership of Afghan women and directly improves the security, 
economic and social well-being, and political status of Afghan 
women and girls.
    (b) Assistance for Women and Girls.--
            (1) The terms and conditions of section 1102(b)(1) 
        of Public Law 111-32 shall apply to assistance for 
        Afghanistan in fiscal year 2010.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
        Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than 
        $175,000,000 shall be made available to support 
        programs that directly address the needs and protect 
        the rights of Afghan women and girls, including for the 
        Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, the Afghan 
        Ministry of Women's Affairs, and for women-led 
        nongovernmental organizations.
    (c) Procurement of Afghan Products and Services.--The terms 
and conditions of section 1102(c) of Public Law 111-32 shall 
apply to assistance for Afghanistan in fiscal year 2010.
    (d) Anticorruption.--
            (1) The terms and conditions of section 1102(d) of 
        Public Law 111-32 shall apply to assistance for 
        Afghanistan in fiscal year 2010.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are available 
        for assistance for the Government of Afghanistan, 
        $200,000,000 may not be obligated for such assistance 
        unless the Secretary of State certifies to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
        Afghanistan is cooperating fully with United States 
        efforts against the Taliban and Al Qaeda and to reduce 
        poppy cultivation and illicit drug trafficking: 
        Provided, That the Secretary of State may waive the 
        previous sentence if the Secretary reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that to do so is vital to 
        the national security interests of the United States.
    (e) Reconstruction and Development Assistance.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are available 
        for assistance for Afghanistan, not less than 
        $175,000,000 shall be made available for the National 
        Solidarity Program.
            (2) The Secretary of State, in consultation with 
        the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development and the Secretary of Defense, 
        should enhance United States reconstruction efforts in 
        Afghanistan by--
                    (A) emphasizing capacity building and 
                support of Afghan entities and institutions at 
                the provincial and sub-provincial levels; and
                    (B) requiring civilian Provincial 
                Reconstruction Team (PRT) leaders to consult 
                regularly with appropriate local Afghan leaders 
                in their respective provinces and ensuring that 
                PRT reconstruction and development activities 
                support local needs in a sustainable manner and 
                strengthen the authority and control of the 
                Government of Afghanistan at the provincial and 
                sub-provincial levels.
    (f) Rule of Law Programs.--The Coordinator for Rule of Law 
at the United States Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan shall be 
consulted on the use of all funds appropriated by this Act for 
rule of law programs and activities in Afghanistan.
    (g) Base Rights.--None of the funds made available by this 
Act may be used by the United States Government to enter into a 
permanent basing rights agreement between the United States and 
Afghanistan.

                            enterprise funds

    Sec. 7077. (a) Prior to the distribution of any assets 
resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of 
an Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the President shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations, in accordance with 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, a plan for the distribution of the assets of 
the Enterprise Fund.
    (b) Funds made available under titles III through VI of 
this Act for Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities and shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                     united nations population fund

    Sec. 7078. (a) Contribution.--Of the funds made available 
under the heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this Act for fiscal year 2010, $55,000,000 shall be made 
available for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
for UNFPA, that are not made available for UNFPA because of the 
operation of any provision of law, shall be transferred to the 
``Global Health and Child Survival'' account and shall be made 
available for family planning, maternal, and reproductive 
health activities, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Prohibition on Use of Funds in China.--None of the 
funds made available by this Act may be used by UNFPA for a 
country program in the People's Republic of China.
    (d) Conditions on Availability of Funds.--Funds made 
available by this Act for UNFPA may not be made available 
unless--
            (1) UNFPA maintains funds made available by this 
        Act in an account separate from other accounts of UNFPA 
        and does not commingle such funds with other sums; and
            (2) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
    (e) Report to Congress and Dollar-for-Dollar Withholding of 
Funds.--
            (1) Not later than 4 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
        indicating the amount of funds that the UNFPA is 
        budgeting for the year in which the report is submitted 
        for a country program in the People's Republic of 
        China.
            (2) If a report under paragraph (1) indicates that 
        the UNFPA plans to spend funds for a country program in 
        the People's Republic of China in the year covered by 
        the report, then the amount of such funds the UNFPA 
        plans to spend in the People's Republic of China shall 
        be deducted from the funds made available to the UNFPA 
        after March 1 for obligation for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year in which the report is submitted.

                                  opic

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 7079. (a) Whenever the President determines that it is 
in furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, up to a total of $20,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
under title III of this Act may be transferred to, and merged 
with, funds appropriated by this Act for the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation Program Account, to be subject to the 
terms and conditions of that account: Provided, That such funds 
shall not be available for administrative expenses of the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation: Provided further, That 
designated funding levels in this Act shall not be transferred 
pursuant to this section: Provided further, That the exercise 
of such authority shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) The President of the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation is hereby authorized and directed to issue, not 
later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this Act, a 
comprehensive set of environmental, transparency and 
internationally recognized worker rights and human rights 
guidelines with requirements binding on the Corporation and its 
investors that shall be consistently applied to all projects, 
funds and sub-projects supported by the Corporation: Provided, 
That these regulations shall be no less rigorous than the 
environmental and social guidelines that the Corporation has 
made publicly available as of June 3, 2009, and the 
environmental and social policies of the World Bank Group, and 
hereafter may be issued and further revised only following 
public notice and opportunity for comment: Provided further, 
That the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall issue a 
report, not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, 
highlighting its substantial commitment to invest in renewable 
and other clean energy technologies and plans to significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its portfolio: Provided 
further, That such commitment shall include implementing a 
revised climate change mitigation plan to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with projects and sub-projects in the 
agency's portfolio as of June 30, 2008 by at least 30 percent 
over a 10-year period and by at least 50 percent over a 15-year 
period.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2195(a)(2)), the authority of 
subsections (a) through (c) of section 234 of such Act shall 
remain in effect through September 30, 2010.

                              extradition

    Sec. 7080. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
may be used to provide assistance (other than funds provided 
under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
``Emergency Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Assistance'') for the central government of a country which has 
notified the Department of State of its refusal to extradite to 
the United States any individual indicted for a criminal 
offense for which the maximum penalty is life imprisonment 
without the possibility of parole or for killing a law 
enforcement officer, as specified in a United States 
extradition request.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall only apply to the central 
government of a country with which the United States maintains 
diplomatic relations and with which the United States has an 
extradition treaty and the government of that country is in 
violation of the terms and conditions of the treaty.
    (c) The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary 
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver 
is important to the national interests of the United States.

                climate change and environment programs

    Sec. 7081. (a) In General.--Of the funds appropriated by 
this Act, up to $1,257,200,000 may be made available for 
programs and activities to--
            (1) reduce, mitigate, and sequester greenhouse 
        gases that contribute to global climate change;
            (2) support climate change adaptation;
            (3) protect forests and other critical landscapes; 
        and
            (4) protect biodiversity.
    (b) Clean Energy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
Support Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'' for clean energy programs and activities, may be 
made available only to promote the sustainable use of renewable 
energy technologies and end-use energy efficiency technologies, 
carbon sequestration, and carbon accounting: Provided, That of 
the funds made available for the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) for clean energy programs, 
not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
microfinance renewable energy programs, including solar energy 
programs.
    (c) Adaptation Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available for United States contributions to the 
Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change 
Fund to support adaptation programs and activities, if the 
Global Environment Facility makes publicly available on its 
website the criteria used to determine which programs and 
activities receive funds, the manner in which such programs and 
activities meet such criteria, the extent of local involvement 
in such programs and activities, the amount of funds provided, 
and the results achieved.
    (d) Biodiversity.--Of the funds appropriated by title III 
of this Act, not less than $205,000,000 shall be made available 
for programs and activities which directly protect 
biodiversity, including tropical forests and wildlife, in 
developing countries, of which not less than $25,000,000 shall 
be made available for USAID's conservation programs in the 
Amazon Basin: Provided, That of the funds made available under 
this paragraph, not less than $20,500,000 shall be made 
available for the Congo Basin Forest Partnership only for 
programs which directly promote the conservation and 
sustainable management of natural resources in landscapes in 
the Congo Basin area, with a priority on protected area and 
landscape resource management to enable local communities to 
conserve the natural resource base, including programs to 
substantially reduce the impacts of industrial-scale resource 
extraction on local communities and the natural resource base: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be made available, directly or indirectly, to support 
industrial-scale logging or other industrial-scale resource 
extraction or sector reform that would promote these 
activities: Provided further, That funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out the provisions of sections 103 through 106, 
and chapter 4 of part II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, for the purpose of supporting 
tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation activities, 
clean energy and climate change programs aimed at reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, and programs to mitigate mercury 
pollution: Provided further, That funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Development Assistance'' may be made available as a 
contribution to the Galapagos Invasive Species Fund.
    (e) Consultation.--Funds made available pursuant to this 
section are subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided, That prior to the obligation of funds for a 
contribution to the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, the 
Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, as 
appropriate, shall determine and report to the Committees on 
Appropriations that there have been thorough consultations by 
the World Bank with interested civil society and indigenous 
organizations.
    (f) Extraction of Natural Resources.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall inform the 
        managements of the international financial institutions 
        and the public that it is the policy of the United 
        States to oppose any assistance by such institutions 
        (including but not limited to any loan, credit, grant, 
        or guarantee) for the extraction and export of oil, 
        gas, coal, timber, or other natural resource unless the 
        government of the country has in place functioning 
        systems for:
                    (A) accurately accounting for payments for 
                companies involved in the extraction and export 
                of natural resources;
                    (B) the independent auditing of accounts 
                receiving such payments and the widespread 
                public dissemination of the findings of such 
                audits; and
                    (C) verifying government receipts against 
                company payments including widespread 
                dissemination of such payment information, and 
                disclosing such documents as Host Government 
                Agreements, Concession Agreements, and bidding 
                documents, allowing in any such dissemination 
                or disclosure for the redaction of, or 
                exceptions for, information that is 
                commercially proprietary or that would create 
                competitive disadvantage.
            (2) Not later than 180 days after the enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations describing, 
        for each international financial institution, the 
        amount and type of assistance provided, by country, for 
        the extraction and export of oil, gas, coal, timber, or 
        other natural resources in the preceding 12 months, and 
        whether each institution considered, in its proposal 
        for such assistance, the extent to which the country 
        has functioning systems described in paragraph (1).
    (g) Authorization for the Clean Technology Fund.--
            (1) Limitations on authorization of 
        appropriations.--For fiscal year 2010, up to 
        $300,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated for a 
        United States contribution to the Clean Technology Fund 
        (the Fund).
            (2) Limits on country access.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall use the voice and vote of the United 
        States to ensure that--
                    (A) The Fund does not provide more than 15 
                percent of Fund resources to any one country;
                    (B) Prior to the obligation of funds, 
                recipient countries submit to the governing 
                body of the Fund, and the governing body of the 
                Fund appropriately reviews and considers, an 
                investment plan that will achieve significant 
                net reductions in national-level greenhouse gas 
                emissions;
                    (C) The investment plan for a recipient 
                country, which borrowing status is classified 
                by the World Bank as `International Development 
                Association (IDA) blend', shall have at least 
                15 percent of its total cost for public sector 
                activities contributed from the public funds of 
                the recipient country, and any recipient 
                country whose borrowing status is classified by 
                the World Bank as `International Bank for 
                Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) Only' 
                status, shall have at least 25 percent of its 
                total cost for public sector activities 
                contributed from public funds of the recipient 
                country; and
                    (D) Assistance made available by the Fund 
                is used exclusively to support the deployment 
                of clean energy technologies in developing 
                countries (including, where appropriate, 
                through the provision of technical support or 
                support for policy or institutional reforms) in 
                a manner that achieves substantial net 
                reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
            (3) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act and annually 
        thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit 
        to the Committees on Appropriations in the House and 
        Senate, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the 
        House Financial Services Committee, a report 
        describing--
                    (A) the operations and governance of the 
                Fund, and the purpose and progress of each 
                project supported by the Fund, including the 
                extent to which assistance made available by 
                the Fund has reduced or will reduce greenhouse 
                gas emissions in recipient countries; and
                    (B) how each project furthers the Fund's 
                investment plan of the country or countries in 
                which the project is implemented.
            (4) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    (A) Net reductions.--The term `net 
                reductions' refers to the extent to which a 
                project or program supported under this 
                subsection results in lower greenhouse gas 
                emissions than would be emitted by the same 
                entity or sector in the same country in the 
                absence of the Fund's project, taking into 
                account, unless impracticable, effects beyond 
                the physical boundaries of the project or 
                program that result from project or program 
                activities.
                    (B) Public sector activities.--The term 
                `public sector activities' may include 
                sovereign loans assumed by the recipient 
                country to contribute to the financing of the 
                investment plan.
                    (C) Clean energy technology.--The term 
                `clean energy technology' means a technology 
                that, as compared with technologies being 
                deployed at that time for widespread commercial 
                use in the country involved--
                            (i) achieves substantial reductions 
                        in greenhouse gas emissions;
                            (ii) does not result in significant 
                        incremental adverse effects on public 
                        health or the environment; and
                            (iii) does one or more of the 
                        following:
                                    (I) generates electricity 
                                or useful thermal energy from a 
                                renewable resource;
                                    (II) substantially 
                                increases the energy efficiency 
                                of buildings, industrial, or 
                                agricultural processes, or of 
                                electricity transmission, 
                                distribution, or end-use 
                                consumption; or
                                    (III) substantially 
                                increases the energy efficiency 
                                of the transportation system or 
                                increases utilization of 
                                transportation fuels that have 
                                lifecycle greenhouse gas 
                                emissions that are 
                                substantially lower than those 
                                attributable to fossil fuel-
                                based alternatives.

                  prohibition on promotion of tobacco

    Sec. 7082.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco 
products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign 
country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally 
to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 7083.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of 
the Arms Export Control Act may be used to provide financing to 
Israel, Egypt and NATO and major non-NATO allies for the 
procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial 
suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment (other than 
helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
civilian application), if the President determines that there 
are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for 
those defense articles being provided by commercial lease 
rather than by government-to-government sale under such Act.

                            anti-kleptocracy

    Sec. 7084. (a) In furtherance of the National Strategy to 
Internationalize Efforts Against Kleptocracy and Presidential 
Proclamation 7750, the Secretary of State shall compile and 
maintain a list of officials of foreign governments and their 
immediate family members who the Secretary has credible 
evidence have been involved in corruption relating to the 
extraction of natural resources in their countries.
    (b) Any individual on the list compiled under subsection 
(a) shall be ineligible for admission to the United States.
    (c) The Secretary may waive the application of subsection 
(b) if the Secretary determines that admission to the United 
States is necessary to attend the United Nations or to further 
United States law enforcement objectives, or that the 
circumstances which caused the individual to be included on the 
list have changed sufficiently to justify the removal of the 
individual from the list.
    (d) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act and 
180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall report in 
writing, in classified form if necessary, to the Committees on 
Appropriations describing the evidence of corruption concerning 
each of the individuals listed pursuant to subsection (a).

                    international prison conditions

    Sec. 7085. (a) Not later than 180 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations a report, which shall also be made publicly 
available including on the Department of State's website, 
describing the conditions in prisons and other detention 
facilities in countries receiving United States assistance 
where the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human 
Rights and Labor has determined, based on the Department of 
State's most recent Human Rights Report and any other relevant 
information, arbitrary detention and/or cruel, inhumane or 
degrading treatment of prisoners or detainees, or inhumane 
prison conditions, is common, and identifying those countries, 
if any, whose governments the Assistant Secretary determines 
are making significant efforts to eliminate inhumane conditions 
and those countries whose governments the Assistant Secretary 
determines are not making such efforts.
    (b) For purposes of each determination made pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall consider whether:
            (1) the number of prisoners or detainees does not 
        so exceed prison capacity such that per capita floor 
        space is sufficient to allow for humane sleeping 
        conditions and reasonable physical movement;
            (2) human waste facilities are available and are 
        located separately from the prison population at large, 
        and human waste is disposed of regularly and in a 
        sanitary manner;
            (3) the lighting, ventilation, temperature and 
        physical construction of prisons and other detention 
        facilities do not seriously endanger health and safety;
            (4) prisoners and detainees have access to adequate 
        food and potable drinking water;
            (5) prisoners and detainees have access to basic 
        and emergency medical care;
            (6) to the maximum extent practicable, prisoners 
        and detainees are allowed reasonable contact with 
        visitors and permitted religious observance;
            (7) the government permits prisoners and detainees 
        to submit complaints to judicial authorities without 
        censorship, investigates credible allegations of 
        inhumane conditions, and documents the results of such 
        investigations in a manner that is publicly accessible;
            (8) the government is investigating and monitoring 
        the conditions of prisons and other detention 
        facilities under its authority, including cooperation 
        with international experts on eliminating inhumane 
        conditions, and such information is available to the 
        Secretary of State;
            (9) the government is appointing ombudsmen to serve 
        on behalf of prisoners and detainees, considering 
        alternatives to incarceration for nonviolent offenders 
        to alleviate inhumane overcrowding, making efforts to 
        address the status and circumstances of confinement of 
        juvenile offenders, making efforts to improve pre-trial 
        detention, bail and recordkeeping procedures to reduce 
        pre-trial detention periods and to ensure that 
        prisoners do not serve beyond the maximum sentence for 
        the charged offense; and
            (10) the government is increasing the amount of 
        government resources to eliminate inhumane conditions.
    (c) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
provisions of chapters 1 and 11 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and the Support for 
East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, shall be made 
available, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, for assistance to help eliminate 
inhumane conditions in prisons and other detention facilities 
administered by foreign governments that the Assistant 
Secretary of State determines are making significant efforts to 
eliminate such conditions.
    (d) The Secretary of State shall designate a Deputy 
Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human 
Rights and Labor to have primary responsibility for diplomatic 
efforts related to international prison conditions.

                    transparency and accountability

    Sec. 7086. (a) United Nations.--Funds appropriated by this 
Act shall be available to continue to support efforts to 
promote transparency and accountability at the United Nations, 
including access to audits and program information, as 
appropriate: Provided,  That the Secretary of State, following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, may 
withhold from obligation funds appropriated under the heading 
``International Organizations and Programs'' for a United 
States contribution to a United Nations organization or agency 
if the Secretary determines that such organization or agency is 
not adequately implementing reforms to increase transparency 
and accountability.
    (b) International Monetary Fund.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
        the United States Executive Director of the 
        International Monetary Fund (the Fund) to promote 
        standard public disclosure of documents of the Fund 
        presented to the Executive Board of the Fund and 
        summaries of the minutes of meetings of the Board, as 
        recommended by the Independent Evaluation Office of the 
        Fund, not later than 2 years after the date of the 
        meeting at which the document was presented or the 
        minutes were taken (as the case may be), unless the 
        Executive Board--
                    (A) determines that it is appropriate to 
                delay disclosure; and
                    (B) posts the reason for the delay on the 
                website of the Fund.
            (2) Transparency and accountability of loans, 
        agreements, and other programs of the international 
        monetary fund.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States Executive Director of the 
        International Monetary Fund to promote--
                    (A) transparency and accountability in the 
                policymaking and budgetary procedures of 
                governments of members of the Fund;
                    (B) the participation of citizens and 
                nongovernmental organizations in the economic 
                policy choices of those governments; and
                    (C) the adoption by those governments of 
                loans, agreements, or other programs of the 
                Fund through a parliamentary process or another 
                participatory and transparent process, as 
                appropriate.
            (3) Efforts to reduce the worst forms of child 
        labor.--
                    (A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                instruct the United States Executive Director 
                of the International Monetary Fund to promote 
                policies and practices to reduce the worst 
                forms of child labor (as defined in section 
                507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
                2467(6))) through education and other means, 
                such as promoting the need for members of the 
                Fund to develop and implement national action 
                plans to combat the worst forms of child labor.
                    (B) Not later than one year after the date 
                of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
                Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and 
                Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives a report describing efforts of 
                the Fund to reduce the worst forms of child 
                labor.
    (c) National Budget Transparency.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated under titles III 
        and IV of this Act may be made available for assistance 
        for the central government of any country that fails to 
        publicly disclose on an annual basis its national 
        budget, to include income and expenditures.
            (2) The Secretary of State may waive the 
        requirements of paragraph (1) on a country-by-country 
        basis if the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that to do so is important to the 
        national interest of the United States.
            (3) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to $1,500,000 may 
        be made available for programs and activities to assist 
        the central government of any country named in the 
        reports required by paragraph (2) to improve national 
        budget transparency: Provided, That such sums shall be 
        in addition to funds otherwise made available for such 
        purposes.
    (d) Asian Development Bank.--Ten percent of the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Contribution to 
the Asian Development Fund'' shall be withheld from obligation 
until the Secretary of the Treasury reports to the Committees 
on Appropriations that the Asian Development Bank (the Bank) is 
taking steps to--
            (1) implement an independent review, to include 
        external specialists, of the operations and internal 
        controls of the Office of Information Systems and 
        Technology and any other offices considered vulnerable 
        to fraud and corruption;
            (2) strengthen internal controls to improve 
        accountability by management and prevent cases of fraud 
        and corruption; and
            (3) ensure that restitution, including criminal 
        prosecution if appropriate, is sought if the Bank 
        experiences losses from fraud and corruption.

                          disability programs

    Sec. 7087. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $5,000,000 
shall be made available for programs and activities 
administered by the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) to address the needs and protect and 
promote the rights of people with disabilities in developing 
countries, and for programs to disseminate information 
(including best practices and strategies) on independent 
living, advocacy, education, and transportation to people with 
disabilities and disability advocacy organizations in 
developing countries, including for the cost of translation.
    (b) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Operating 
Expenses'' in title II of this Act shall be made available to 
develop and implement training for staff in overseas USAID 
missions to promote the full inclusion and equal participation 
of people with disabilities in developing countries.
    (c) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
and the USAID Administrator shall seek to ensure that, where 
appropriate, construction projects funded by this Act are 
accessible to people with disabilities and in compliance with 
the USAID Policy on Standards for Accessibility for the 
Disabled, or other similar accessibility standards.
    (d) Of the funds made available pursuant to subsection (a), 
not more than 7 percent may be for management, oversight, and 
technical support.

               orphans, displaced, and abandoned children

    Sec. 7088.  Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
this Act, $3,000,000 should be made available for activities to 
improve the capacity of foreign government agencies and 
nongovernmental organizations to prevent child abandonment, 
address the needs of orphans, displaced and abandoned children 
and provide permanent homes through family reunification, 
guardianship and adoptions, consistent with the Hague 
Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in 
Respect of Inter-Country Adoption.

                               sri lanka

    Sec. 7089. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated in title III 
of this Act that are available for assistance for Sri Lanka 
shall be made available for programs that promote 
reconciliation between ethnic Sinhalese and Tamil populations, 
support post-conflict reconstruction, and advance the 
participation of Tamils and other minorities in the political 
and economic life of the country, and shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) Restriction on Military Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
Sri Lanka, no defense export license may be issued, and no 
military equipment or technology shall be sold or transferred 
to Sri Lanka pursuant to the authorities contained in this Act 
or any other Act, until the Secretary of State certifies to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Sri Lanka--
            (1) is suspending and bringing to justice members 
        of the military who have been credibly alleged to have 
        violated internationally recognized human rights or 
        international humanitarian law; and
            (2) is respecting internationally recognized human 
        rights, including the right of due process and freedoms 
        of the press, association and assembly;
            (3) is treating internally displaced persons in 
        accordance with international standards, including by 
        guaranteeing their freedom of movement, providing 
        access to conflict-affected areas and populations by 
        humanitarian organizations and journalists, and 
        accounting for persons detained in the conflict; and
            (4) is implementing policies to promote 
        reconciliation and justice including devolution of 
        power as provided for in the Constitution of Sri Lanka.
    (c) Exception.--Subsection (b) shall not apply to 
assistance for humanitarian demining.
    (d) Use of Funds.--If the Secretary makes the certification 
required in subsection (b), funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are made 
available for assistance for Sri Lanka should be used to 
support the recruitment and training of Tamils into the Sri 
Lankan military, Tamil language training for Sinhalese military 
personnel, and human rights training for all military 
personnel.
    (e) Restriction on Multilateral Assistance.--The Secretary 
of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive 
Directors of the international financial institutions (as 
defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the International Financial 
Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2))) to vote against any 
loan, agreement, or other financial support for Sri Lanka 
except to meet basic human needs, unless the Secretary of State 
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
Government of Sri Lanka is meeting the requirements in 
subsection (b)(3).

                 international monetary fund provisions

    Sec. 7090. (a) Opposition to Hard Currency for SDRs 
Received by Terrorist Countries.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall instruct the United States Executive Director at the 
International Monetary Fund (the Fund) to use the voice and 
vote of the United States to oppose the provision by the Fund 
of United States dollars, euros, or Japanese yen to any country 
the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, 
for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act 
of 1979, section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or 
section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act, to be a government 
that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international 
terrorism, in exchange for any Special Drawing Rights received 
by the country pursuant to the amendments to the Articles of 
Agreement of the Fund as described in section 64 of the Bretton 
Woods Agreements Act.
    (b) Conditional Sunset on Authority to Make Loans to Fund 
the New Arrangements to Borrow.--Section 17(a) of the Bretton 
Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286e-2(a)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(3) The authority to make loans under this 
        section shall expire on the date that is 5 years after 
        the date of the enactment of this paragraph unless the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, not later than 60 days 
        before such expiration date or 60 days prior to the 
        renewal of the decision governing the New Arrangements 
        to Borrow (NAB), whichever occurs first, certifies to 
        the appropriate congressional committees, that--
                    ``(A) no amendments made, or anticipated to 
                be made, to the NAB to achieve an expanded and 
                more flexible NAB, as described in paragraph 17 
                of the G20 Leaders' Statement at the 2009 
                London Summit, will impair the ability of the 
                Secretary of the Treasury to consider a renewal 
                of the NAB decision at intervals no greater 
                than 5 years and to withdraw the adherence of 
                the United States to the NAB decision as is 
                currently provided under paragraph 19 of the 
                New Arrangement to Borrow, adopted by the 
                Executive Board of the International Monetary 
                Fund (IMF) on January 27, 1997; and
                    ``(B)(i) the IMF will borrow resources from 
                members under the NAB only when quota resources 
                need to be supplemented in order to forestall 
                or cope with an impairment of the international 
                monetary system or to deal with an exceptional 
                situation that poses a threat to the stability 
                of that system;
                    ``(ii) the IMF has, prior to any activation 
                of the NAB, fully explored other means of 
                funding to supplement any potential shortfall 
                in quota resources necessary to forestall or 
                cope with an impairment of the international 
                monetary system or to deal with an exceptional 
                situation that poses a threat to the stability 
                of that system; or
                    ``(iii) it is in the United States' 
                strategic economic interest to maintain the 
                relative size or lower of the United States 
                contribution to the NAB as in effect on the 
                date of the certification.
            ``(4) Not later than 15 days before submitting the 
        certification under paragraph (3), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall consult with the appropriate 
        congressional committees regarding such 
        certification.''.
    (c) Limitation on Percentage of New Arrangements to Borrow 
to Be Funded by the United States.--Section 17(a)(2) of the 
Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286e-2(a)(2)) is 
amended by striking ``is representative of its share as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``remains not 
greater than 20 percent, which approximates the United States 
share as of the date of the enactment of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32)''.
    (d) Reporting Requirements.--Not later than 60 days after 
the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter until 
September 30, 2014, the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies, shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on the 
loans made and programs carried out using financing provided by 
or through the New Arrangements to Borrow: Provided, That each 
such report shall include the following:
            (1) A description of the economies of countries 
        requiring the assistance from the New Arrangements to 
        Borrow, including the monetary, fiscal, and exchange 
        rate policies of the countries.
            (2) A description of the degree to which the 
        countries requiring the assistance have implemented 
        domestic reforms including--
                    (A) the enactment and implementation of 
                appropriate financial reform legislation;
                    (B) strengthening the domestic financial 
                system and improving transparency and 
                supervision;
                    (C) opening domestic capital markets; and
                    (D) making nontransparent conglomerate 
                practices more transparent through the 
                application of internationally accepted 
                accounting practices, independent external 
                audits, full disclosure, and provision of 
                consolidated statements.
            (3) A detailed summary of the trade policies of the 
        countries, including any unfair trade practices or 
        adverse effects of the trade policies on the United 
        States.
            (4) The amount, rate of interest, and disbursement 
        and repayment schedules of any funds disbursed by the 
        International Monetary Fund pursuant to the New 
        Arrangements to Borrow.

                intellectual property rights protections

    Sec. 7091.  Not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
Act and every 120 days thereafter until September 30, 2010, the 
Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing actions taken by the Secretary during 
negotiations on the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change, and subsequent international climate change 
negotiations, to promote compliance with and enforcement of 
existing international legal requirements concerning 
intellectual property rights and effective intellectual 
property rights protection and enforcement for energy and 
environmental technologies.

               prohibition on certain first-class travel

    Sec. 7092.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used for first-class travel by employees of agencies 
funded by this Act in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.

      limitation on use of funds in contravention of certain laws

    Sec. 7093.  None of the funds made available in this Act or 
prior Acts may be used in contravention of any provision of, or 
amendment made by, this Act or sections 1110, 1112, 1403, or 
1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 
111-32), unless such authority is expressly provided in 
statute: Provided, That if a determination is made on 
constitutional grounds by the Executive Branch that any 
provision of law covered by the preceding sentence shall not 
apply, the head of the relevant Federal agency shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in writing within 5 days of such 
determination, the basis for such determination and any 
resulting changes to program and policy.
      This division may be cited as the ``Department of State, 
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2010''.

      And the Senate agree to the same.

                                   David R. Obey,
                                   John W. Olver,
                                   Ed Pastor,
                                   Nita Lowey,
                                   Marcy Kaptur,
                                   David E. Price,
                                   Lucille Roybal-Allard,
                                   Marion Berry,
                                   Carolyn C. Kilpatrick,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Patty Murray,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                   Barbara A. Mikulski,
                                   Herb Kohl,
                                   Richard J. Durbin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Patrick J. Leahy,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Dianne Feinstein,
                                   Tim Johnson,
                                   Frank R. Lautenberg,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Christopher S. Bond,
                                           (Except for D.C. Abortion)
                                   Robert F. Bennett,
                                           (Except for D.C. Abortion)
                                   Susan Collins,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.
       JOINT EXPLANATORY STATEMENT OF THE COMMITTEE OF CONFERENCE

      The managers on the part of the House and Senate at the 
conference on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses on the 
amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 3288), making 
appropriations for Transportation, and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2010 and for other purposes, submit the following 
joint statement to the House and Senate in explanation of the 
effect of the action agreed upon by the managers and 
recommended in the accompanying conference report.
      This conference agreement includes the Transportation, 
and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2010; the Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010; the Financial 
Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2010; the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010; the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2010; and 
the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2010.

DIVISION A--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

                        Congressional Directives

      The language and allocations set forth in the House 
report (House Report 111-218) and Senate report (Senate Report 
111-69) should be complied with unless specifically addressed 
to the contrary in the conference report and the statement of 
the managers. Report language included by the House, which is 
not changed by the report of the Senate or this statement of 
managers, and Senate report language, which is not changed by 
this statement of managers, is approved by the committee of 
conference. The statement of the managers, while repeating some 
report language for emphasis, does not intend to negate the 
language referred to above unless expressly provided herein. In 
cases where the House or the Senate has directed the submission 
of a report, such report is to be submitted to both the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations. The conferees direct 
the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development to notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations seven days prior to the announcement of a new 
program or authority.

                 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $102,686,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Transportation instead of $102,306,000 as proposed by the House 
and $100,975,000 as proposed by the Senate. The agreement 
includes funding by office as specified below:

Immediate Office of the Secretary.......................      $2,631,000
Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary................         986,000
Office of the General Counsel...........................      20,359,000
Office of the Under Secretary for Transportation Policy.      11,100,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and 
    Programs............................................      10,559,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
    Affairs.............................................       2,504,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration....      25,520,000
Office of Public Affairs................................       2,055,000
Office of the Executive Secretariat.....................       1,658,000
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization..       1,499,000
Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response      10,600,000
Office of the Chief Information Officer.................      13,215,000

                  NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS

      The conference agreement provides $600,000,000 for 
capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure 
instead of $1,100,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House 
did not propose funding for this account. The conferees urge 
the Secretary to give consideration to innovative projects that 
support investment in inland ports and freight rail.
      Credit assistance.--The conference agreement allows up to 
$150,000,000 of the funding provided for surface transportation 
infrastructure to be used to pay for the subsidy and 
administrative costs of projects eligible for credit assistance 
under the TIFIA program.
      Planning activities.--The conference agreement allows up 
to $35,000,000 of the funding provided for surface 
transportation infrastructure to be used for the planning, 
preparation or design of eligible projects. This funding will 
improve the capacity of state, local, and regional governments 
to develop significant transportation solutions, including 
innovative and multijurisdictional projects that do not fit 
easily into existing federal programs. The conferees direct the 
Secretary of Transportation to provide this funding on a 
competitive basis.

                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL

      The conference agreement provides $5,000,000 for the 
financial management capital program as proposed by the Senate, 
instead of $2,000,000 as proposed by the House.

                         OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS

      The conference agreement provides $9,667,000 for the 
office of civil rights as proposed by the House and Senate.

           TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $16,168,000 for 
transportation planning, research and development, instead of 
$14,733,000 as proposed by the House and $8,233,000 as proposed 
by the Senate. The conferees direct funding to be allocated to 
the following projects:

Advanced Power Train Systems Integration Research Facility in 
    the National Transportation Research Center, TN...........  $250,000
Earthworks Engineering Research Center, Iowa State University, 
    IA........................................................   500,000
Freight Policy Transportation Institute, WA...................   730,500
Great Lakes Maritime Research Institute, MN/WI................   450,000
Hampton Roads-Crater Multimodal Transportation and 
    Distribution Study, VA....................................   243,500
Jet Engine Technology Inspection To Support Continued 
    Airworthiness, Iowa State University, IA..................   700,000
Mobility 1st Service, MI......................................   750,000
Northern Lights Express, MN...................................   500,000
University of Kansas Engine Test Cell Upgrade, KS.............   350,000
Vehicle Research Institute--Advanced Materials Transit Vehicle 
    Design, WA................................................   730,500
Whatcom Smart Trips, WA.......................................   730,500

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

      The conference agreement includes a limitation of 
$147,596,000 for working capital fund activities, as proposed 
by the House and instead of $147,500,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement specifies that services shall 
be provided on a competitive basis to entities within the 
Department of Transportation. The conference agreement directs 
the Department to update the ``transparency paper'' included in 
the fiscal year 2010 budget justification and include the 
updated version in the budget justification for fiscal year 
2011.

               MINORITY BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides a total appropriation 
of $923,000 as proposed by the Senate for the minority business 
center program, instead of $912,000 as proposed by the House. 
Within the funds provided $353,000 is for the costs of 
guaranteed loans for short-term working capital as proposed by 
the Senate, instead of $342,000 as proposed by the House. In 
addition, $570,000 is provided for administrative expenses as 
proposed by the House and Senate. The bill limits loans made 
under this program to $18,367,000 as proposed by the House and 
Senate.

                       MINORITY BUSINESS OUTREACH

      The conference agreement provides $3,074,000 for minority 
business outreach as proposed by the House and Senate and 
allows funds to be used for business opportunities related to 
any mode of transportation.

                        PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS

                    (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $150,000,000 for 
payments to air carriers instead of $125,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and the Senate. In addition to these funds, the 
program will receive $50,000,000 in mandatory spending pursuant 
to the Federal Aviation Authorization Act of 1996. The funding 
provided in the conference agreement is necessary to support 
air service in all eligible communities.

  ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

      Section 101 prohibits funds in this Act available to the 
Department of Transportation from being obligated for the 
Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds 
appropriated to the modal administrations in this Act, except 
for activities underway on the date of enactment of this Act, 
unless such assessments or agreements have completed the normal 
reprogramming process for Congressional notification.
      Section 102 prohibits funds from being obligated or 
expended to establish or implement a program where essential 
air service communities are required to assume subsidy costs 
commonly referred to as local participation.
      Section 103 allows the Secretary of Transportation or his 
designee to engage with states to consider proposals related to 
the reduction of motorcycle fatalities.
      Section 104 authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to 
transfer the unexpended balances available for the bonding 
assistance program from ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and 
Expenses'' to ``Minority Business Outreach''.
      Section 105 allows funds provided for the Transportation 
Planning, Research, and Development program to be used for the 
development, coordination, and analysis of data collection 
procedures and national performance measures. Data analysis is 
a critical part of informing transportation decision-making and 
reaching national priorities such as safety, economic 
accessibility, congestion reduction, network utility, reduced 
energy use, and environmental protection. The conferees 
encourage the Secretary to work with States and Metropolitan 
Planning Organizations in order to understand the resources 
they would need to collect and report accurate data on system 
performance.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               OPERATIONS

                    (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)

                     (Including Transfer of Funds)

      The conference agreement includes $9,350,028,000 for 
operations of the Federal Aviation Administration instead of 
$9,347,168,000 as proposed by the House and $9,359,131,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Of the total amount provided, 
$4,000,000,000 is to be derived from the airport and airway 
trust fund. Funds are distributed in the bill by budget 
activity.
      The following table compares the conference agreement to 
the levels proposed in the House and Senate bills by budget 
activity:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Traffic Organization request.......................     $7,302,739,000     $7,302,739,000     $7,302,739,000
    Adjustments:
    NextGen Staffing...................................         -2,000,000  .................         -2,000,000
    Additional Controllers.............................  .................          2,500,000  .................
    ATO Financial Services.............................  .................         -2,167,000         -3,790,000
    Alien Species Action Plan..........................  .................            900,000            876,600
    RNAV/RNP Procedures................................  .................          2,830,000          2,830,000
                                                        --------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Air Traffic Organization..................      7,300,739,000      7,305,902,000      7,299,299,000
Aviation Safety request................................      1,216,395,000      1,216,395,000      1,216,395,000
    Adjustments:
    Additional AFS Staff...............................          9,500,000         13,412,500          9,500,000
    Additional AIR Staff...............................          4,500,000          5,087,500          4,500,000
    Human Intervention and Motivation Study............          1,370,000          1,370,000          1,370,000
    St. Louis University Center for Aviation Safety      .................          2,000,000          2,000,000
     Research, MO......................................
    Additional AVS legal staff.........................  .................            300,000            300,000
                                                        --------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Aviation Safety...........................      1,231,765,000      1,216,395,000      1,234,065,000
Commercial Space Transportation request................         14,737,000         14,737,000         14,737,000
    Adjustments:
    Commercial space grant program.....................          1,000,000  .................            500,000
      Total, Commercial Space Transportation...........         15,737,000         14,737,000         15,237,000
    Financial Services.................................        113,681,000        113,681,000        113,681,000
    Human Resource Management..........................        100,428,000        100,428,000        100,428,000
    Region and Center Operations.......................        341,977,000        341,977,000        341,977,000
    Staff Offices......................................        196,063,000        196,063,000        196,063,000
    Information Services...............................         48,788,000         49,788,000         49,278,000
      Account-wide Adjustments:
      Unfilled Executive Positions.....................         -2,000,000  .................  .................
        Total..........................................      9,347,168,000      9,359,131,000      9,350,028,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Controller staffing.--The conference agreement includes 
$7,299,299,000 for the air traffic organization instead of 
$7,300,739,000 as proposed by the House and $7,305,902,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement provides 
funding for a minimum of 15,692 air traffic controllers. The 
conferees note that the FAA and its controller workforce 
reached a mutual agreement on a three-year labor contract. The 
conferees expect the FAA to honor the terms of the agreement 
within its existing resources.
      The conferees also believe in the importance of 
maintaining adequate experience levels at each air traffic 
control facility. Therefore, the conferees direct the FAA to 
provide a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations with facility-by-facility targets against which 
actual experience levels can be measured.
      Contract tower program.--The conference agreement 
includes $116,700,000 for the contract tower base program and 
$9,500,000 for the contract tower cost-sharing program. In 
addition, the FAA is permitted to use unsubscribed funds from 
the contract tower base line program to avoid elimination of 
communities from the cost share towers program, but only after 
all base line tower obligations have been fulfilled.
      RNAV/RNP procedures.--Within the amounts provided for the 
air traffic organization, $35,130,000 is included for RNAV/RNP 
procedures. FAA is directed to provide a report to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations by February 15, 2010 
which describes every procedure that will be developed with 
fiscal year 2010 funds, including quantifiable data comparing 
flight time; flight distance; and estimated fuel, emissions and 
environmental benefits compared to existing procedures. The 
report should include information on which office or region 
requested the procedure and the anticipated development time.
      Southern California TRACON.--The conferees direct the FAA 
to submit a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations within 60 days of enactment on the Southern 
California TRACON as articulated in Senate Report 111-69.
      Aviation safety (AVS).--The conference agreement provides 
$1,234,065,000 for aviation safety, which includes an increase 
of $9,500,000 for additional flight standards inspectors and 
related safety staff and an increase of $4,500,000 for 
additional aircraft certification inspectors and related safety 
staff.

                        FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT

                    (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement includes $2,936,203,000 for FAA 
facilities and equipment instead of $2,925,202,000 as proposed 
by the House and $2,942,352,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of 
the total amount available, $470,000,000 is available until 
September 30, 2010, and $2,466,203,000 is available until 
September 30, 2012. The bill includes language directing FAA to 
transmit a detailed five-year capital investment plan to 
Congress with its fiscal year 2011 budget submission.
      The following table provides a breakdown of the House and 
Senate bills and the conference agreement by program:

                                                                FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                               FY 2010 estimate      House bill        Senate bill         Conference
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Activity 1, Engineering, Development, Test and Evaluation:
    Advanced Technology Development and Prototyping.........................        $41,800,000        $43,800,000        $41,800,000        $42,800,000
    NAS Improvement of System Support Laboratory............................          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
    William J. Hughes Technical Center Facilities...........................         12,000,000         12,000,000         12,000,000         12,000,000
    William J. Hughes Technical Center Infrastructure Sustainment...........          5,500,000          5,500,000          5,500,000          5,500,000
    Next Generation Network Enabled Weather (NNEW)..........................         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000
    Data Communications in support of Next Generation Air Transportation             51,700,000         46,700,000         51,700,000         46,700,000
     System.................................................................
    Next Generation Transportation System Demonstration and Infrastructure           33,773,730         33,773,730         33,773,730         33,773,730
     Development............................................................
    Next Generation Transportation System--System Development...............         66,100,000         66,100,000         66,100,000         66,100,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--Trajectory Based Operations......         63,500,000         63,500,000         63,500,000         63,500,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--Weather Reduction Impact.........         35,600,000         35,600,000         35,600,000         35,600,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--High Density Arrivals/Departures.         51,800,000         51,800,000         51,800,000         51,800,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--Collaborative ATM................         44,640,770         44,640,770         44,640,770         44,640,770
    Next Generation Transportation System--Flexible Terminals and Airports..         64,300,000         64,300,000         64,300,000         64,300,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--Safety Security and Environment..          8,200,000          8,200,000          8,200,000          8,200,000
    Next Generation Transportation System--Networked Facilities.............         24,000,000         24,000,000         24,000,000         24,000,000
    NextGen Integrated Airport..............................................  .................  .................            850,000            827,900
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, Activity 1...................................................        523,914,500        520,914,500        524,764,500        520,742,400
                                                                             ===========================================================================
  Activity 2, Air Traffic Control Facilities and Equipment:
  En Route Programs
    En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM)................................        171,750,000        171,750,000        171,750,000        171,750,000
    En Route Communications Gateway (ECG)...................................          3,600,000          3,600,000          3,600,000          3,600,000
    Next Generation Weather Radar (NEXRAD)--Provide.........................          6,900,000          6,900,000          6,900,000          6,900,000
    Air Traffic Control System Command Center (ATCSCC)--Relocation..........         10,300,000         10,300,000         10,300,000         10,300,000
    ARTCC Building Improvements/Plant Improvements..........................         51,300,000         51,300,000         50,000,000         50,000,000
    Air Traffic Management (ATM)............................................         31,400,000         31,400,000         31,400,000         31,400,000
    Air/Ground Communications Infrastructure................................          8,600,000          8,600,000          8,600,000          8,600,000
    ATC Beacon Interrogator (ATCBI)--Replacement............................          4,700,000          4,700,000          4,700,000          4,700,000
    Air Traffic Control En Route Radar Facilities Improvements..............          5,300,000          5,300,000          5,300,000          5,300,000
    Voice Switching and Control System (VSCS)...............................         16,700,000         16,700,000         16,700,000         16,700,000
    Oceanic Automation System...............................................          7,700,000          7,700,000          7,700,000          7,700,000
    Corrider Weather Integrated System (CWIS)...............................          2,300,000          2,300,000          2,300,000          2,300,000
    Next Generation Very High Frequency Air/Ground Communications System             70,200,000         62,200,000         70,200,000         64,200,000
     (NEXCOM)...............................................................
    System-Wide Information Management......................................         54,600,000         54,600,000         56,600,000         56,548,000
    ADS-B NAS Wide Implementation...........................................        201,350,000        201,350,000        201,350,000        201,350,000
    Windshear Detection Services............................................          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
    Weather and Radar Processor (WARP)......................................         17,600,000         17,600,000         17,600,000         17,600,000
    Collaborative Air Traffic Management Technologies.......................         18,100,000         18,100,000         18,100,000         18,100,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal En Route Programs............................................        683,400,000        675,400,000        684,100,000        678,048,000
  Terminal Programs
    Airport Surface Detection Equipment--Model X (ASDE-X)...................         17,302,000         20,302,000         25,302,000         25,302,000
    Terminal Doppler Weather Radar (TDWR)--Provide..........................          9,900,000          9,900,000          9,900,000          9,900,000
    Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STARS) (TAMR Phase 1)..         28,000,000         28,000,000         28,000,000         28,000,000
    Terminal Automation Modernization/Replacement Program (TAMR Phase 3)....          3,000,000         12,000,000         23,000,000         18,000,000
    Terminal Automation Program.............................................          9,600,000          9,600,000          9,600,000          9,600,000
    Terminal Air Traffic Control Facilities--Replace........................        176,000,000        176,000,000        179,000,000        179,000,000
    ATCT/Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) Facilities--Improve.......         38,900,000         38,900,000         38,900,000         38,900,000
    Terminal Voice Switch Replacement (TVSR)................................         10,500,000         10,500,000         10,500,000         10,500,000
    NAS Facilities OSHA and Environmental Standards Compliance..............         26,000,000         26,000,000         26,000,000         26,000,000
    Airport Surveillance Radar (ASR-9)......................................          3,500,000          3,500,000          3,500,000          3,500,000
    Terminal Digital Radar (ASR-11).........................................         12,600,000         12,863,000         12,600,000         12,863,000
    Runway Status Lights....................................................        117,300,000        117,300,000        117,300,000        117,300,000
    National Airspace System Voice Switch (NVS).............................         26,600,000         26,600,000         26,600,000         26,600,000
    Next Generation Voice Recorder Replacement Progaram.....................         11,900,000         11,900,000         11,900,000         11,900,000
    Integrated Display System (IDS).........................................          7,000,000          7,000,000          7,000,000          7,000,000
    Integrated Terminal Weather System (ITWS)...............................          1,900,000          1,900,000          1,900,000          1,900,000
    Remote Maintenance Monitoring...........................................          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Terminal Programs............................................        501,002,000        513,265,000        532,002,000        527,265,000
  Flight Service Programs
    Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS)...............................          5,500,000          5,500,000          5,500,000          5,500,000
    Flight Service Station (FSS) Modernization..............................         20,100,000         20,100,000         20,100,000         20,100,000
    Weather Camera Program (moved from Safeflight)..........................          3,800,000          3,800,000          3,800,000          3,800,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Flight Service Programs......................................         29,400,000         29,400,000         29,400,000         29,400,000
  Landing and Navigational Aids Program
     VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR) with Distance Measuring Equipment          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
     (DME)..................................................................
    Instrument Landing System (ILS)--Establish..............................          8,600,000         11,200,000         10,100,000         12,575,000
    Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) for GPS............................         97,400,000         92,600,000         91,000,000         91,000,000
     Runway Visual Range (RVR)..............................................          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
    Approach Lighting System Improvement Program (ALSIP)....................          8,700,000          9,337,000          9,700,000         10,337,000
    Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)......................................          6,000,000          6,000,000          6,000,000          6,000,000
    Visual NAVAIDS--Establish/Expand........................................          3,700,000          3,700,000          3,700,000          3,700,000
    Instrument Flight Procudures Automation (IFPA)..........................          7,900,000          7,900,000          7,900,000          7,900,000
    Navigation and Landing Aids--Service Life Extension Program (SLEP)......          6,000,000         11,000,000          7,000,000          9,000,000
    VASI Replacement--Replace with Precision Approach Path Indicator........          4,000,000          4,000,000          4,500,000          4,500,000
    GPS Civil Requirements..................................................         43,400,000         43,400,000         43,400,000         43,400,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Landing and Navigational Aids Programs.......................        195,700,000        199,137,000        193,300,000        198,412,000
  Other ATC Facilities Programs
    Fuel Storage Tank Replacement and Monitoring............................          6,200,000          6,200,000          6,200,000          6,200,000
    Unstaffed Infrastructure Sustainment....................................         18,200,000         18,200,000         18,200,000         18,200,000
    Aircraft Related Equipment Program......................................          9,000,000          9,000,000          9,000,000          9,000,000
    Aircraft Related Equipment Simulator Replacement........................          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
    Airport Cable Loop Systems--Sustained Support...........................          6,000,000          6,000,000          6,000,000          6,000,000
    Alaskan NAS Interfacility Communications System (ANICS).................          9,000,000          9,000,000          9,000,000          9,000,000
    Facilities Decommissioning..............................................          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
    Electrical Power Systems--Sustain/Support...............................        101,000,000         91,000,000         87,750,000         87,750,100
    Aircraft Fleet Modernization............................................          5,969,000          5,969,000          5,969,000          5,969,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Other ATC Facilities Programs................................        161,369,000        151,369,000        148,119,000        148,119,100
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, Activity 2...................................................      1,570,871,000      1,568,571,000      1,586,921,000      1,581,244,100
                                                                             ===========================================================================
  Activity 3, Non-Air Traffic Control Facilities and Equipment:
  Support Equipment
    Hazardous Materials Management..........................................         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000
    Aviation Safety Analysis System (ASAS)..................................         10,500,000         10,500,000         10,500,000         10,500,000
    Logistics Support System and Facilities (LSSF)..........................          9,300,000          9,300,000          9,300,000          9,300,000
    National Air Space Recovery Communications (RCOM).......................         10,230,000         10,230,000         10,230,000         10,230,000
    Facility Security Risk Management.......................................         18,000,000         18,000,000         18,000,000         18,000,000
    Information Security....................................................         12,276,000         12,276,000         12,276,000         12,276,000
    System Approach for Safety Oversight....................................         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000         20,000,000
    Aviation Safety Knowledge Management Environment (ASKME)................          8,100,000          8,100,000          8,100,000          8,100,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Support Equipment............................................        108,406,000        108,406,000        108,406,000        108,406,000
  Training, Equipment and Facilities
    Aeronautical Center Infrastructure Modernization........................         13,810,500         13,810,500         13,810,500         13,810,500
    Distance Learning.......................................................          1,500,000          1,500,000          1,500,000          1,500,000
    National Airspace System (NAS) Training--Simulator......................          6,700,000          9,700,000          6,700,000          8,200,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Training, Equipment and Facilities...........................         22,010,500         25,010,500         22,010,500         23,510,500
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, Activity 3...................................................        130,416,500        133,416,500        130,416,500        131,916,500
                                                                             ===========================================================================
  Activity 4, Facilities and Equipment Mission Support:
  System Support and Services
    System Engineering and Development Support..............................         31,700,000         31,700,000         31,700,000         31,700,000
    Program Support Leases..................................................         37,500,000         37,500,000         37,500,000         37,500,000
    Logistics Support Services (LSS)........................................         11,000,000         11,000,000         11,000,000         11,000,000
    Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center Leases................................         16,200,000         16,200,000         16,200,000         16,200,000
    Transition Engineering Support..........................................         15,000,000         14,300,000         15,000,000         14,300,000
    Frequency and Spectrum Engineering......................................          3,600,000          3,600,000          3,600,000          3,600,000
    Technical Support Services Contract (TSSC)..............................         22,000,000         22,000,000         22,000,000         22,000,000
    Resource Tracking Program (RTP).........................................          4,000,000          4,000,000          4,000,000          4,000,000
    Center for Advanced Aviation System Development (CAASD).................         79,000,000         82,000,000         79,000,000         82,000,000
    Aeronautical Information Management Program.............................         10,000,000         10,000,000         10,000,000         10,000,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, Activity 4...................................................        230,000,000        232,300,000        230,000,000        232,300,000
                                                                             ===========================================================================
  Activity 5, Personnel and Related Expenses:
    Personnel and Related Expenses--ATO.....................................        470,000,000        470,000,000        470,000,000        470,000,000
                                                                             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, All Activities...............................................      2,925,202,000      2,925,202,000      2,942,102,000      2,936,203,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Advanced technology development and prototyping.--The 
conference agreement includes $42,800,000 for the advanced 
technology development and prototyping program, of which 
$11,000,000 is for the runway incursion reduction program.
      NextGen research and demonstration.--The conferees direct 
the FAA to submit a report to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 18 months of enactment which describes 
the NextGen research and demonstration activities, including 
their contribution to the overall NextGen architecture, lessons 
learned and overall role in the completion of NextGen.
      Terminal air traffic control facilities replacement.--The 
FAA's terminal air traffic control facilities replacement 
program is funded at $179,000,000 and shall be distributed as 
follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      FY 2010 Budget       Conference
              Project                    estimate          agreement
------------------------------------------------------------------------
New York, NY......................         $6,379,000         $6,379,000
Ft. Lauderdale, FL................          8,951,000          8,951,000
Las Vegas, NV.....................         71,415,552         71,415,552
Champaign, IL.....................          8,368,553          8,368,553
San Francisco, CA.................         21,000,000         21,000,000
Dayton, OH........................          1,121,654          1,121,654
Gulfport, MS......................          5,642,940          5,642,940
Missoula, MT......................            923,200            923,200
Memphis, TN.......................          3,821,375          3,821,375
West Palm Beach, FL...............          1,508,455          1,508,455
Traverse City, MI.................          3,501,458          3,501,458
Kona, HI..........................          3,160,000          3,160,000
Islip, NY.........................          1,309,823          1,309,823
Houston, TX.......................          8,990,000          8,990,000
Pensacola, FL.....................          1,924,610          1,924,610
Reno, NV..........................          1,301,742          1,301,742
Cleveland, OH.....................          5,095,000          5,095,000
LaGuardia, NY.....................          1,406,000          1,406,000
Kalamazoo, MI.....................          6,992,500          6,992,500
Las Cruces, NM....................            100,000            100,000
Broomfield, CO....................          4,632,607          4,632,607
Palm Springs, CA..................              - - -          2,000,000
Nantucket, MA.....................              - - -          1,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Terminal digital radar (ASR-11).--The conference 
agreement includes $12,863,000 for the ASR-11 program as 
proposed by the House instead of $12,600,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within the amounts provided, $263,000 is provided for 
the acquisition and installation of an ASR-11 system at Reno-
Tahoe International Airport, Reno, NV.
      System-wide information management.--The conference 
agreement includes $56,548,000 for the System-wide Information 
Management (SWIM) program. Within the amount provided, 
$1,948,000 is provided to test, evaluate, and develop mobile 
object technology, and to demonstrate the benefits this 
technology can bring to the SWIM program, network-enabled 
operations, and a 4-D trajectory national airspace system.
      Instrument landing system establishment.--The FAA's 
instrument landing system program is funded at $12,575,000. 
Funds shall be distributed as follows:

Castle Airport ILS, CA........................................  $520,000
Hazard/Perry County Airport ILS, KY...........................   500,000
Kinston Regional Jetport ILS upgrade, NC......................   500,000
Napa County Airport glide slope on Runway 36L, CA.............   280,000
Piedmont Triad International Airport, NC...................... 1,250,000
Southern Vermont Regional Airport lighting, North Clarendon, 
    VT........................................................   925,000

      Approach lighting system improvement (ALSIP).--The ALSIP 
program is funded at $10,337,000. Within the total, funds shall 
be distributed as follows:
        Project                                                   Amount
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport ALSF-2, WA.............. $4,000,000
Juneau International Airport MALSR Lighting, AK............... 1,000,000
Arlington Municipal Airport, TX...............................   637,000

      Navigation and landing aids--service life extension 
program (SLEP).--The conference agreement includes $9,000,000 
for navigation and landing aids. Within the amount provided, 
$1,000,000 is for the procurement and installation of 
additional runway end identification light (REIL) systems.
      VASI replacement--replace with precision approach path 
indicator.--The conference agreement includes $4,500,000 for 
the replacement of VASI systems with Precision Approach Path 
Indicator (PAPI) systems. The conferees direct the FAA to use 
the additional funding to procure additional PAPI systems.

                 RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT

                    (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)

      The bill provides $190,500,000 for the FAA's research, 
engineering, and development activities, instead of 
$195,000,000 as proposed by the House and $175,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The following table compares the House 
and Senate bills with the conference agreement by budget 
activity:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                   Conference
                        Program                                House              Senate           agreement
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Improve Aviation Safety:
    Fire research and safety...........................          7,799,000          7,299,000          7,799,000
    Propulsion and fuel systems........................          3,105,000          3,105,000          3,105,000
    Advanced material/structural safety................          4,448,000          2,448,000          4,935,000
    Atmospheric hazards/digital system safety..........          4,482,000          4,482,000          4,482,000
    Aging aircraft.....................................         10,944,000         10,944,000         10,944,000
    Aircraft catastrophic failure prevention...........          1,545,000          1,545,000          1,545,000
    Flightdeck maintenance/system integration human              7,128,000          7,128,000          7,128,000
     factors...........................................
    Aviation safety risk analysis......................         12,698,000         12,698,000         12,698,000
    ATC/AF human factors...............................         10,302,000         10,302,000         10,302,000
    Aeromedical research...............................         10,378,000          9,878,000         10,378,000
    Weather research...................................         16,789,000         15,789,000         16,789,000
    Unmanned aircraft system...........................          3,467,000          3,467,000          3,467,000
  Improve efficiency:
    Joint program and development office...............         14,407,000         13,407,000         14,407,000
    Wake turbulence....................................         10,631,000         10,631,000         10,631,000
    NextGen--Air ground integration....................          5,688,000          5,688,000          5,688,000
    NextGen--Self separation...........................          8,247,000          8,247,000          8,247,000
    NextGen--Weather technology........................          9,570,000          9,070,000          9,570,000
  Reduce Environment Impacts:
    Environment and energy.............................         15,522,000         15,022,000         15,522,000
    NextGen Environmental Research--Aircraft                    32,470,000         18,470,000         26,509,000
     Technologies, Fuels and Metrics...................
  Mission Support:
    System planning and resource management............          1,766,000          1,766,000          1,766,000
    Technical laboratory facilities....................          3,614,000          3,614,000          4,588,000
                                                        --------------------------------------------------------
      Total............................................       $195,000,000       $175,000,000        190,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the funds provided for FAA's advanced materials 
research activities, the conference agreement includes $487,000 
for the Advanced Material in Transport Aircraft Structures 
Center in Seattle, Washington and $2,000,000 for the National 
Institute for Aviation Research at Wichita State University, of 
which $500,000 is included for non-destructive inspection 
training for composite airframe structures. In addition, the 
conference agreement includes $974,000 within the technical 
laboratory facilities program for research and development 
activities at the Center for Commercial Space Transportation at 
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Florida.

                       GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                    (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes a liquidating cash 
appropriation of $3,000,000,000; an obligation limitation of 
$3,515,000,000; a limitation on administrative expenses of not 
more than $93,422,000; no less than $15,000,000 for the airport 
cooperative research program; and no less than $22,472,000 for 
airport technology research. Within the funds provided for 
airport administrative expenses, the conferees include funding 
for one additional legal counsel position.
      Small community air service development pilot program.--
The bill includes $6,000,000 under the obligation limitation to 
continue the small community air service development pilot 
(SCASDP) program and directs the FAA to transfer funds to OST 
salaries and expenses appropriation.
      Specifications and standards for airfield pavement 
markings.--The conferees direct the FAA to submit a report 
explaining what actions will be taken to clarify the issue 
concerning a revised Federal specification and updated 
standards referencing high-index, retro-reflective glass beads, 
as described in Senate Report 111-69. The conferees further 
direct the FAA to submit this report to both the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
      High priority projects.--Of the funds covered by the 
obligation limitation in this bill, FAA is directed to provide 
not less than the following funding levels, out of available 
resources, for the following projects. State apportionment 
funds may be construed as discretionary funds for the purposes 
of implementing this provision. To the maximum extent possible, 
the Administrator should work to ensure that airport sponsors 
for these projects first use available entitlement funds to 
finance the projects. However, the FAA should not require 
sponsors to apply carryover entitlements to discretionary 
projects funded in the coming year, but only those entitlements 
applicable to the fiscal year 2010 obligation limitation. The 
FAA is further directed that the specific funding allocated 
below shall not diminish or prejudice the application of a 
specific airport or geographic region to receive other AIP 
discretionary grants or multiyear letters of intent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Airport Apron Expansion, Wasilla, AK.................           $500,000
Albuquerque International Sunport general aviation               275,000
 aircraft parking ramp replacement, NM...............
Alliance Airport runway extension program, TX........            750,000
Alpine Airport runway and terminal improvements, TX..            500,000
Atmore Airport access road, runway lights, and safety            475,000
 improvements, AL....................................
Bradford County Airport runway extension, PA.........            250,000
Branch County Memorial Airport green building                    450,000
 terminal improvements, Coldwater, MI................
Burlington International Airport Taxiway and Apron               974,000
 Improvements, VT....................................
Burlington-Alamance County Regional Airport runway             1,000,000
 and taxiway project, NC.............................
Chautauqua County Dunkirk Airport runway                       1,000,000
 construction, NY....................................
Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport               500,000
 apron rehabilitation, KY............................
Crisp County Airport various improvements, GA........            300,000
DeKalb Taylor Municipal Airport Drainage Upgrades, IL            500,000
Delta Regional Airport airfield runway, taxiway and            1,200,000
 apron improvements, AR..............................
Denver International Airport west airfield taxiway               500,000
 improvements, CO....................................
Des Moines International Airport Runway 13R/31L Land             500,000
 Acquisition, Des Moines, IA.........................
Detroit International Airport rehabilitate taxiway A             500,000
 and east end runway, MI.............................
Devils Lake Regional Airport Runway Improvements, ND.            487,000
Eagle River Union Airport Ramp Reconstruction and                871,730
 Expansion, WI.......................................
Fairfield County Airport Runway and Taxiway                      175,000
 Rehabilitation, SC..................................
Fernandina Beach Municipal Airport taxiway                     1,000,000
 improvements, FL....................................
Florence Regional Airport drainage and concourse                 500,000
 improvements, SC....................................
Floyd Bennett Memorial/Warren County Airport                     850,000
 Improvements, NY....................................
Gainesville-Alachua Airport general aviation apron               750,000
 and taxiway A rehabilitation, FL....................
Glynn County Airport airfield and taxiway                      1,100,000
 improvements, GA....................................
Golden Triangle Regional Airport runway extension, MS          2,000,000
Grand Forks International Airport Terminal                     2,441,500
 Replacement, Grand Forks, ND........................
Grand Junction Regional Airport Commercial Apron                 500,000
 Rehabilitation, CO..................................
Guam International Airport Authority--Terminal                   750,000
 Security Enhancements...............................
Gulfport-Biloxi Airport design and construction of             2,500,000
 taxiways and runway extension, MS...................
Huntsville Airport Authority air carrier and ramp                250,000
 enhancements, AL....................................
Imperial County Airport Feasibility Study, Imperial              100,000
 County, CA..........................................
Jackson-Evers International Airport airfield                   2,375,000
 improvements, MS....................................
Keokuk Municipal Airport rehabilitation and remarking            300,000
 airfield pavements, IA..............................
Lamar Municipal Airport new runway construction, MO..          2,750,000
Lanett Municipal Airport environmental assessments,            5,000,000
 land acquisition and runway construction, AL........
Lewiston-Auburn Municipal Airport data collection,               500,000
 preliminary design, land acquisition, permitting and
 environmental assessment, ME........................
Los Alamos County Airport runway rehabilitation, NM..            800,000
Louisville International Airport airfield capacity               750,000
 improvements, KY....................................
Mid Delta Regional various runway improvements, MS...          1,000,000
Mobile Downtown Airport taxiway A improvements, AL...          1,500,000
Montgomery County Airport Airfield Pavement                      500,000
 Rehabilitation, NC..................................
Nashville International Airport reconstruction of a            1,500,000
 Portion of 2L-20R Runway, TN........................
Niagara Falls International Airport Runway 10L-28R               925,000
 Mill and Overlay, NY................................
Oakland County International Airport Terminal                    730,500
 Building, Pontiac, MI...............................
Oberlin Municipal Airport runway realignment and                 500,000
 lengthening project, KS.............................
Ogden-Hinckley Airport runway improvements, UT.......            500,000
Oxford-Henderson Airport Enhancement Project, NC.....            300,000
Pellston Regional Airport snow removal and aircraft              800,000
 rescue and firefighting building improvements, MI...
Perry-Foley Airport Resurfacing of Primary Runway 18/          1,000,000
 36, FL..............................................
Peter Prince Airport, Santa Rosa County, runway hold             500,000
 bays construction, FL...............................
Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport Taxiway               2,000,000
 Alpha, Phoenix, AZ..................................
Quad Cities International Airport Runway                         487,000
 Reconstruction and Extension, Moline, IL............
Richard Downing Airport runway extension, OH.........            450,000
Richard Russell Regional Airport (Floyd County, GA)              250,000
 midfield taxiway improvements, GA...................
Richmond County Airport Runway Safety Area Project,              400,000
 NC..................................................
San Marcos Municipal Airport apron construction, TX..          1,200,000
Sandusky County Regional Airport (S24) taxiway                   500,000
 project, OH.........................................
SC-TAC Airport taxiway B improvements, SC............            750,000
Sheboygan County Memorial Airport Reconstruction                 925,300
 (Runway 13/31 and Taxiways F1 and F2), WI...........
Sikeston Memorial Municipal Airport for the                    1,700,000
 relocation and construction of a taxiway, MO........
South Texas International Airport runway and fire                500,000
 safety improvements, TX.............................
Southern Illinois Airport Aircraft Rescue                        779,200
 Firefighting Building Construction, Carbondale, IL..
St. Clair County International Airport runway                    500,000
 extension, MI.......................................
St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport                1,000,000
 runway and taxiway improvements, FL.................
Stinson Airport runway, signage, lighting and                  1,200,000
 drainage improvements, TX...........................
Texarkana Regional Airport fire station project, TX..            750,000
Toledo Express Airport Improvements, OH..............            500,000
Tulsa International Airport, Memorial Drive and                  500,000
 waterline project, OK...............................
Twin County Airport obstruction removal and runway               500,000
 safety improvement, VA..............................
Virginia Tech Airport runway rehabilitation, VA......            500,000
Washington County Airport runway 9/27 overlay                    500,000
 project, PA.........................................
Waterbury-Oxford Airport runway protection zone                  500,000
 improvements, CT....................................
Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport                      500,000
 intermodal center design/construction, PA...........
Wittman Regional Airport runway project, Oshkosh, WI.            950,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$394,000,000 in unobligated balances of contract authority.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

      Section 110 allows no more than 600 technical staff-years 
at the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 111 prohibits funds for adopting guidelines or 
regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide FAA ``without 
cost'' building construction or space as proposed by the House 
and Senate.
      Section 112 allows the FAA to be reimbursed for amounts 
made available for 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) as fees are collected 
and credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 113 allows reimbursement of funds for providing 
technical assistance to foreign aviation authorities to be 
credited to the operations account as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 114 extends the current terms and conditions of 
FAA's ``war risk insurance'' program until December 31, 2010 as 
proposed by the House.
      Section 115 prohibits funds from being used to change 
weight restrictions or prior permission rules at Teterboro 
Airport in New Jersey as proposed by the House.
      Section 116 prohibits funds limited in this Act for the 
Airport Improvement Program to be provided to an airport that 
refuses a request from the Secretary of Transportation to use 
public space at the airport for the purpose of conducting 
outreach on air passenger rights as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 117 prohibits funds for Sunday premium pay unless 
work was actually performed on a Sunday as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 118 prohibits funds in the Act from being used to 
buy store gift cards with Government issued credit cards as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 119 allows all airports experiencing the required 
level of boardings through charter and scheduled air service to 
be eligible for funds under 49 U.S.C. 47114(c) as proposed by 
the Senate.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement limits obligations for 
administrative expenses of the Federal Highway Administration 
(FHWA) to $413,533,000, as proposed by the House instead of 
$415,396,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement also includes language to make $3,524,000 in contract 
authority above this limitation available to the Office of 
Inspector General (OIG) to conduct audits and investigations 
related to the FHWA and $285,000 in contract authority above 
this limitation available for the OIG's annual audit of the 
FHWA's financial statements. In addition, the conferees provide 
$3,220,000 in contract authority above the limitation available 
for the administrative expenses of the Appalachian Regional 
Commission in accordance with section 104 of title 23, United 
States Code.
      Improving bridge safety.--The conferees expect the FHWA 
to make more significant progress in improving its oversight of 
bridge conditions and safety over the course of fiscal year 
2010. In order to ensure that the agency has the staff 
necessary to conduct more rigorous oversight of bridges, the 
conferees direct the FHWA to use $5,000,000 of the funds 
provided to hire additional personnel at the agency 
headquarters and in the division offices with the 
responsibility to oversee bridge safety.
      In addition, the conferees direct the Inspector General 
to evaluate the FHWA's progress in fulfilling each of the 
recommendations given in his report on the national bridge 
inspection program (Report Number MH-2009-013) and to submit a 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
with his findings no later than April 30, 2010.
      Ensuring the success of mass evacuations.--The conferees 
direct the Department of Transportation (DOT), in cooperation 
with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to assess mass 
evacuation plans for the country's most high-threat, high-
density areas and identify and prioritize deficiencies on those 
routes that could impede evacuations. The conferees also direct 
DOT, in cooperation with DHS and the Office of the National 
Capital Region Coordination, to conduct an analysis of how 
national highway system projects under construction west of the 
National Capital Region (NCR) could increase the NCR's 
evacuation capacity and provide a detailed plan to accelerate 
such projects. DOT shall submit its report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations no later than 90 days after 
the enactment of this Act.

                          FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement limits obligations for the 
federal-aid highways program to $41,107,000,000 in fiscal year 
2010, as proposed by the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement also includes bill language that 
limits obligations for transportation research to $429,800,000 
and language which allows the Secretary to charge and collect 
fees from the applicant for a direct loan, guaranteed loan, or 
line of credit to cover the cost of the financial and legal 
analyses performed on behalf of the Department as authorized 
under section 605(b) of title 23, United States Code, as 
proposed by the House and the Senate. The fees so collected are 
not subject to any obligation limitation or the limitation on 
administrative expenses set for the infrastructure finance 
program under section 608 of title 23, United States Code.

               FERRY BOATS AND FERRY TERMINAL FACILITIES

      Within the funds available for ferry boats and ferry 
terminal facilities, funds are to be available for the 
following projects and activities as listed in the following 
table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ashtabula City Port Authority, OH....................           $500,000
Berkeley/Albany to San Francisco Ferry Service, CA...          1,000,000
Glen Cove Ferry Terminal, NY.........................          1,000,000
Long Branch Pier and Ferry Terminal, NJ..............            300,000
Mayport Ferry Rehabilitation, Jacksonville, FL.......            500,000
New Vessel Program--Propulsion System Acquisition, WA          2,922,000
Ocean Beach Ferry Terminal Enhancement, NY...........            600,000
Reconstruction of the Bayshore Ferry Terminal                    250,000
 Bulkhead, Saltaire, NY..............................
Refurbished Passenger Ferry, VI......................            200,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNITY, AND SYSTEM PRESERVATION PROGRAM

      Within the funds made available for the transportation, 
community and system preservation program, funds are to be 
distributed to the following projects and activities as listed 
in the following table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10th St. Connector--To extend 10th Street from                  $500,000
 Dickinson Avenue to Stantonsburg Road, Greenville,
 NC..................................................
55th Street Expansion in Rochester, MN...............            300,000
5th and 6th Street Reconstruction, OR................            779,200
6th Street Grade Separation, Vincennes, IN...........            700,000
7th Street Gateway Streetscape Enhancement Project,              487,000
 NJ..................................................
Access Road to Melbourne International Airport, FL...            779,200
Autumn Street Parkway, San Jose, CA..................            974,000
Bayside Trail, Portland, ME..........................            200,000
Beaudry Road Crossing and Pathway Project, WA........            584,400
Beckett Bascule Bridge Replacement--Pinellas Country,            300,000
 FL..................................................
Belle Chasse Bridge, Belle Chasse, Plaquemines                   500,000
 Parish, LA..........................................
Belleview Bypass and Baseline Road, Marion County, FL            500,000
Bike Path between Lexington and Port Sanilac, MI.....            250,000
Bluffton Parkway Phases 6/7, SC......................            500,000
Bridge Replacement, MO 79 at Sandy Creek, Lincoln                400,000
 County, MO..........................................
Bristol Street Widening, Santa Ana, CA...............            350,000
California State Route 119 Widening Project, CA......            400,000
Camden Waterfront Neighborhood Development                       487,000
 Initiative, NJ......................................
Chapman Road Reconstruction Project, OK..............            400,000
City of Urbana Goodwin Street Expansion, IL..........            750,000
Completion of future I-99, US Route 15 in Steuben                974,000
 County, NY..........................................
County Rails-to-Trails Economic Development and                  100,000
 Tourism Project, NY.................................
Craighead Bridge Replacement, PA.....................            750,000
Downtown Development Authority Streetscape,                      392,000
 Dahlonega, GA.......................................
Downtown Streetscape Expansion Lansdale, PA..........            500,000
Dunes Kankakee Trail, Porter County, IN..............            500,000
Echo Park/Sunset Boulevard Streetscape                           600,000
 Beautification, CA..................................
El Camino East/West Corridor, AL.....................          1,500,000
El Dorado and Bromwich Sidewalk Improvements, CA.....            550,000
Elvis Presley Boulevard Improvements, TN.............            500,000
Fish Lake Trail Completion, WA.......................          1,948,000
FM 493, Hidalgo County, TX...........................            300,000
Freeways and Arterial System of Transportation                   681,800
 (FAST), NV..........................................
Hamilton Street Overpass Safety Project, WA..........            974,000
Harrisburg Missouri Street Hospital Access Project,              400,000
 IL..................................................
Hassayampa Freeway (proposed I-11), AZ...............            250,000
Hays-Travis Trail System, TX.........................            300,000
I-5 Santa Clarita-Los Angeles Gateway Improvement                750,000
 Project, CA.........................................
I-84, Broadway Avenue to Gowen Road Widening, ID.....            400,000
I-84, Caldwell to Nampa Widening, ID.................          1,000,000
Improvements to US 74/76, Columbus County, NC........            350,000
Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), Bradenton               500,000
 and Sarasota, FL....................................
Interchange design and construction Kansas Highway 10            500,000
 and Lone Elm Interchange, Lenexa, KS................
Interstate 579 ``Cap''--Urban Green Space & Park                 974,000
 Plaza, Pittsburgh, PA...............................
Interstate 75/Collier Boulevard/SR 84 Interchange                800,000
 Improvements, FL....................................
Iowa Highway 100 Extension and Improvements, Cedar               500,000
 Rapids, IA..........................................
Lexington-Fayette Legacy Trail, KY...................            500,000
Loop 82 Railroad Overpass, TX........................            700,000
Lower Bucks County Waterfront Redevelopment and                  500,000
 Access Project, PA..................................
Main Street Improvements, Springville, AL............            500,000
Midtown Transportation Infrastructure, NY............          1,363,600
Mill Creek Highway, Anaconda-Deer Lodge County, MT...            500,000
Mingo Creek Greenway, Knightdale, NC.................            250,000
Monongalia Health Systems Access Road, WV............            974,000
Montrose Avenue Repaving--Harlem to Canfield, IL.....            350,000
Mount Clemens non-motorized trail along North-bound              575,000
 Gratiot, Mount Clemens, MI..........................
New Hanover Greenway System, NC......................            243,500
New Orleans City Park Infrastructure Improvements,             1,948,000
 New Orleans, LA.....................................
New York City Commercial Vehicle Monitoring and                  500,000
 Enforcement Program, NY.............................
Ninth Street Island Bridge Project, MT...............            608,750
Nordahl Bridge Widening at SR-78, San Marcos, CA.....            500,000
Park Street Pedestrian Safety Transportation                     300,000
 Improvements, Alameda, CA...........................
Parker Bowie Road Bridge Replacement and Widening,               400,000
 Anderson County, SC.................................
Pearl River Downtown Revitalization, NY..............            200,000
Pedestrian Path for the City of New Baltimore, MI....            250,000
Pedestrian Safety Improvement Project, NY............            292,200
Pedestrian Safety Project, Russellville, AL..........            300,000
Pedestrian walkway and waterfront access, Roosevelt              500,000
 Island, NY..........................................
PJ Adams Road Improvement, FL........................            250,000
Prairie Street Grade Separation, Elkhart, IN.........            700,000
Rakow Road widening in McHenry County, IL............            750,000
Replacement of Storm Sewer Adjacent to Route 42,                 500,000
 Bellmawr, NJ........................................
Rice Avenue Interchange at U.S. Highway 101, Ventura             700,000
 County, CA..........................................
Riggin Road at the Walnut Street Intersection, IN....          1,000,000
River Des Peres Boulevard Improvements, MO...........            200,000
Riverwalk Trail--Mile Branch River Park,                          90,000
 Hawkinsville, GA....................................
Road Reconstruction, Village of Rockville Centre, NY.            500,000
Robstown Inland Port-Street Improvement, TX..........            300,000
Rutherford Cross Road Roundabout, CA.................            600,000
Safety Improvements--Salem and Montville Route 85 at             500,000
 CT Route 82, CT.....................................
Salters Road Expansion Along I-85, Greenville, SC....            300,000
Scoping Study on Audubon and Natcher Parkways in                 375,000
 Western Kentucky, KY................................
Sfgo, San Francisco, CA..............................            255,000
Sidewalk Construction in Ashland, Cherryland and                 600,000
 Castro Valley Communities in Alameda County, CA.....
South Lawrence Trafficway, KS........................          1,250,000
State Road (SR) 80, FL...............................            800,000
State Road 133 from Albany to Moultrie, GA...........            800,000
State Route 71 expansion from SR-60 to I-10, Pomona,             300,000
 CA..................................................
State Route 99 Interchange Improvement Project, CA...            500,000
Town of Lexington United Traffic Plan--Phase I, SC...          1,304,000
Tri-State Outerbelt (State Route 7/Chesapeake By-                700,000
 Pass), OH...........................................
Twin Cities-to-Twin Ports Trail Linkage, MN..........            600,000
U.S. 401 Widening Project, NC........................            600,000
U.S. 98 Improvements, FL.............................            500,000
Union Crossing, MA...................................            543,500
US 113 Improvements in Worcester County, MD..........            950,000
US 41/Cobb Parkway Expansion and Bridge Replacement,             500,000
 GA..................................................
US 422 Schuylkill River Crossing Complex, PA.........            700,000
US 60, widen between Bartlesville and Pawhuska, Osage            400,000
 County, OK..........................................
US 78 Upgrade to Interstate Standards, MS............          1,000,000
US Highway 169 Widening Project, OK..................            500,000
US-95, Thorncreek to Moscow, ID......................            400,000
Van Cortlandt Trails Restoration, NY.................            180,000
Wetzel Street Bridge Replacement, WV.................            487,000
Widen Hwy 99W between SPRR overpass and NW Circle                292,200
 Boulevard, OR.......................................
Widening of SC Highway 225, Greenwood, SC............            400,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             FEDERAL LANDS

      Within the funds available for the federal lands program, 
funds are to be available for the following projects and 
activities as listed in the following table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
116th Street NE Interchange Improvements Project,               $800,000
 Tulalip Tribes, WA..................................
Arizona Forest Highway 39, Tucson, AZ................          1,200,000
Asphalt Paving on road to Crow Creek Tribal Schools              500,000
 Stephan Campus, SD..................................
Baltimore Washington Parkway Feasibility Study, MD...          1,000,000
Boulder City Bypass, NV..............................            981,800
BRAC-Related Improvements, Anne Arundel County, MD...          2,753,200
BRAC-Related Improvements, Harford County, MD........          2,881,450
BRAC-Related Improvements, Montgomery County, MD.....          4,400,000
BRAC-Related Improvements, Prince George's County, MD          2,496,700
C&D Canal Trail Improvements, DE.....................          1,000,000
Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge overlook park              298,000
 parking lot and turn lanes, AL......................
Cheaha State Park Talladega National Forest Tourism              500,000
 Access, AL..........................................
Choctaw Lake-Bluff Lake Route, MS....................          1,500,000
Chula Vista Nature Center Road Re-Pavement Project,              500,000
 Chula Vista, CA.....................................
CR 97, Nicolls Road Highway Improvements, NY.........            389,600
Crack sealing and chip seal on BIA #7 Rosebud to                 150,000
 Highway 18 Junction, SD.............................
Doyle Drive Replacement, San Francisco, CA...........          3,704,500
Federal Lands Improvement Project, HI................          3,896,000
FH-24, Banks to Lowman, ID...........................          2,000,000
Flight 93 National Memorial, Transportation                    4,000,000
 Improvements, Somerset, PA..........................
Forest Highway 171 Widening, Butte County, CA........          2,450,000
Forest Road Upgrade, MS..............................            500,000
Fort Baker Transportation Improvements, CA...........            750,000
Fort Drum Connector Road, NY.........................          1,077,000
Golden Gate National Parks--Park Access, Transit and             500,000
 Trails, CA..........................................
Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway Missing Link--                500,000
 Phase 1: Design, Acquisitions, Environmental
 Remediation, Construction, MN.......................
Highway 140, Lake County, OR.........................          1,000,000
Hoover Dam Bypass Bridge, AZ.........................          5,250,000
1-15/Devore Interchange Improvements, San Bernardino           2,000,000
 County, CA..........................................
Improvements to US 491, Navajo Nation, NM............            500,000
Jacksonville National Cemetery Access Road, FL.......            800,000
Kalispel Tribe Road Development from Sprague Avenue            1,266,200
 to US 2, WA.........................................
Martin Road project, City of Huntsville, AL..........            850,000
Navajo Route 42, Oljeto Road Resurfacing Project, UT.          1,000,000
Needles Highway in Needles, San Bernardino County, CA          1,000,000
New Frederick Douglass Memorial Bridge Design and              2,300,000
 Construction Project, DC............................
Pedestrian Safety Improvements at Suquamish Way and              600,000
 Division Streets, WA................................
Pyramid Highway Corridor, NV.........................          1,084,400
Reconstruction of BIA Route 7 on the Turtle Mountain           1,168,800
 Reservation, ND.....................................
Repairs to Waterville Road, TN.......................            200,000
San Juan County Road 370, UT.........................          1,000,000
SD Highway 63 Resurfacing, SD........................          3,000,000
Sequoyah Wildlife Refuge Road Paving, Vian, OK.......            800,000
Sharpes Ferry Bridge, FL.............................          1,200,000
Snake Road Improvement Project, Seminole Big Cypress             500,000
 Reservation, FL.....................................
Southern Nevada Beltway Interchanges, NV.............          3,302,250
SR-160 Nevada Expansion, NV..........................          2,217,500
Standing Rock Sioux Tribe--Community Streets Project--           588,950
 Bear Soldier South, SD..............................
Stones River National Battlefield Tour Route, TN.....          1,500,000
Tamiami Trail (U.S. 41) Safety Improvements, Miami,            1,750,000
 FL..................................................
Tohono O'odham Nation Highway Improvements, Sells, AZ            500,000
Trail Creek Highway/Forest Highway 66 Reconstruction,          3,750,000
 Mackay, ID..........................................
US 40 Northwest Chipseal, CO.........................            750,000
US 50 State Realignment, Douglas County, NV..........          1,000,000
US Highway 101 Corridor Improvement Project, WA......          1,000,000
West River Trail Bridge, VT..........................            165,580
Wolf Trap Performing Arts Multi-Use Trail, Fairfax,              250,000
 VA..................................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees direct that the funds allocated above shall 
be derived from the FHWA's public lands discretionary program 
and not from funds allocated to the National Park Service's 
regions or from funds allocated to the Fish and Wildlife 
Service's regions.

                  INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE DISCRETIONARY

      Within the funds available for the interstate maintenance 
discretionary program, funds are to be available for the 
following projects and activities as listed in the following 
table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24th Street/I-15 Interchange, UT.....................         $2,000,000
79th Street/Stony Island/South Chicago                           900,000
 Reconstruction, IL..................................
Advanced Traffic Management on I-91 Corridor, MA.....          1,500,000
Bob Hope/I-10 Interchange Project, CA................            500,000
Cherry Avenue/I-10 Interchange, County of San                    750,000
 Bernardino, CA......................................
Construction of a new interchange on I-80 at Brisbin             900,000
 Road, Morris, IL....................................
Expansion of Interstate 69, TX.......................            500,000
I-10 at Grove Avenue and Fourth Street Interchange               950,000
 and Grove Avenue Corridor Project, City of Ontario,
 CA..................................................
I-10 Interchange at Pecue Lane, LA...................          1,100,000
I-12 Interchange at LA-16, Denham Springs, LA........            633,100
I-15 Corridor of the Future, NV......................            974,000
I-15 Custer Avenue Interchange, MT...................          2,922,000
I-15/Base Line Road Interchange Improvements, Rancho             750,000
 Cucamonga, CA.......................................
I-215/University Parkway Interchange in San                      750,000
 Bernardino, San Bernardino County, CA...............
I-255 and Telegraph Road Landscape Improvements, MO..            300,000
I-277 Access Corridor (S. Main St.) Phase 2, Akron,              500,000
 OH..................................................
I-29 Fargo North to Sheyenne, ND.....................          1,358,750
I-35 widening from SH-9 West to North of Main Street,            750,000
 OK..................................................
I-40 Improvements, Durham and Wake County, NC........          2,000,000
I-471 Repair Between I-275 and Ohio River, Campbell              500,000
 County, KY..........................................
I-480/Tiedeman Road Interchange Modification, OH.....            800,000
I-5 Columbia River Crossing, OR......................          1,000,000
I-5 Columbia River Crossing, WA......................          1,948,000
I-580 Corridor Improvements, CA......................          1,000,000
I-70 Central Park Boulevard Stapleton Interchange, CO          1,000,000
I-71/SR 665 Interchange Improvements, Grove City, OH.          1,550,000
I-74 Bridge Corridor Project, Moline, IL.............          1,200,000
I-805 Managed Lanes, San Diego, CA...................            500,000
I-85 Interchange modifications at Pleasant Hill Road,          1,000,000
 Gwinnett County, GA.................................
I-85 Widening in Davidson and Rowan Counties, NC.....          1,700,000
I-85 Widening Project, NC............................          1,400,000
I-85/Jimmy Carter Boulevard Bridge Replacement,                  500,000
 Gwinnett County, GA.................................
I-90 Belgrade East Interchange, MT...................          1,461,000
I-95 Interchange at Yamato Road and Spanish River              1,000,000
 Boulevard Project, City of Boca Raton, FL...........
I-95 Interchange with SR 202 (Butler Boulevard), FL..          1,000,000
I-95 Pawtucket River Bridge Replacement, RI..........          2,266,200
I-95/US 301 Interchange, SC..........................          1,700,000
IH-35W Congestion Relief, Fort Worth, TX.............          2,000,000
Improvements to I-75 Interchange at Griffin Road,              1,000,000
 Southwest Ranches, FL...............................
Improvements to I-81, Franklin County, PA............          1,358,750
Interchange at I-5 and French Camp Road, and Arch-               800,000
 Sperry Road Construction, CA........................
Interstate 235/US 54 and I-235/Central Avenue                  1,000,000
 Interchange, Wichita, KS............................
Interstate 280 Interchange Improvements, Harrison, NJ          1,948,000
Interstate 29 Reconstruction and Utility Relocation            1,500,000
 Project, IA.........................................
Interstate 40: New Conway South Interchange, AR......            779,200
Interstate 430/630: Interchange Modification, AR.....          3,435,000
Interstate 49 North, LA..............................            750,000
Interstate 540: Fayetteville-North, AR...............          3,435,000
Interstate 69 Texas Environmental Studies, TX........            500,000
Interstate 69, LA....................................            750,000
Interstate 70 Viaduct Realignment, Topeka, KS........          1,500,000
Interstate 74 Corridor Construction, IA..............          1,000,000
Interstate 75 Exit 20 redesign and construction,               1,200,000
 Cleveland, TN.......................................
Interstate 94/Brockton Lane Interchange, MN..........            800,000
Interstate 94, Madison, WI...........................          1,000,000
Interstate-20 Interchanges, Parker County, TX........            500,000
Interstate-95/Fairfax County Parkway Interchange at              974,000
 Newington Road, VA..................................
Kapolei Interchange Complex, HI......................          3,435,000
Kentucky-Ohio River Bridges Project, KY..............          1,000,000
Latson Road Interchange, Lansing, MI.................            500,000
Margaret McDermott (I-30) Bridge, TX.................          1,000,000
Marion Road Interchange, SD..........................          1,000,000
Meadowood Interchange, NV............................          1,000,000
Methuen Rotary Interchange Reconfiguration, Methuen,             900,000
 MA..................................................
Pennsylvania Turnpike-Interstate 95 Interchange, PA..            500,000
Ranchero Road Corridor Project, CA...................          1,000,000
Safety and Seismic Upgrades to the Shoemaker Bridge,           1,000,000
 City of Long Beach, CA..............................
San Diego Freeway (I-5) Widening and Improvement, CA.            935,000
San Diego Freeway (Interstate 405) Improvements, CA..            750,000
SR-56 to I-5 Interchange Connector, San Diego, CA....          1,000,000
Starr Road Interchange, NV...........................          2,922,000
Third Army Road/I-75 Interchange Construction, GA....            750,000
Turnpike Improvement Project: SR-1 & I-95, DE........          2,018,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            DELTA REGION TRANSPORTATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

      Within the funds available for the Delta region 
transportation development program, funds are to be available 
for the following projects and activities as listed in the 
following table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Capitol Street Renaissance Project--Transportation            $1,150,000
 Improvements, MS....................................
Chalk Bluff Road, Clay County, AR....................          1,100,000
Chouteau Parkway Conceptual Design, MO...............            400,000
Clearview at Earhart Drainage, LA....................            400,000
I-20 Lincoln Parish, Ruston, LA......................            500,000
Interstate 55 Interchange Lighting, MS...............            600,000
Interstate-55 Interchange, MO........................          1,000,000
Jonestown Bypass, MS.................................          1,250,000
LA 1088 Interchange, LA..............................            400,000
Master Planning for I-10, LA.........................            400,000
New Interchange, US 61 @ S. Lincoln Dr, Troy, MO.....            400,000
Poplar Bluff Industrial Park Bypass, MO..............          2,000,000
Route 34, MO.........................................          1,150,000
Southeast Arkansas Intermodal Facility...............            475,000
Statesman Boulevard and Trail, MS....................          1,500,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement provides a liquidating cash 
appropriation of $41,846,000,000, which is available until 
expended, to pay the outstanding obligations of the various 
highway programs at the levels provided in this Act and prior 
appropriations Acts, as proposed by the House and the Senate.

                   SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES

      The conference agreement appropriates $292,829,000 for 
the projects, programs, and activities as listed in the 
following table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10th Avenue South Corridor Extension, Waverly, IA....           $500,000
21st Street North Railroad Overpass, KS..............            500,000
23/101 Freeway Interchange Project, CA...............            500,000
4th Street Improvement Project, City of Moro, OR.....            123,060
53rd Ave. Bridge and Roadway Extension Project, OR...            292,200
55th Street East Grade Separation, ND................          1,850,600
70th Avenue and Valley Avenue East Corridor Project,           1,614,900
 WA..................................................
Akron-Cleveland Road Bridge Replacement, OH..........            750,000
Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations, Riverside             1,349,000
 County, CA..........................................
Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations, Southern              1,349,000
 California Association of Governments, CA...........
Alice's Road Extension/Ashworth Road to University               950,000
 Avenue, IA..........................................
Alsbury Boulevard Construction, TX...................            700,000
Alton Commons Boulevard Improvements, Hilliard, OH...            500,000
Ansonia Riverwalk, CT................................            800,000
Antelope Valley Project Transportation Improvements,             750,000
 NE..................................................
Anvil Block Road Widening, GA........................            500,000
Appalachian Development Highway System Corridor H, WV          4,383,000
Arterial Road and Bridge Improvements, Matanuska-              1,000,000
 Susitna, AK.........................................
Artesia Road Bypass, MS..............................          1,000,000
Ashburton Avenue Widening, Yonkers, NY...............            900,000
Atlanta-Chattanooga-Nashville High-Speed Ground                  750,000
 Transportation/Maglev Feasibility Study,
 Chattanooga, TN.....................................
Atlantic Boulevard South, CA.........................            500,000
Austin Intelligent Transportation Systems, TX........            500,000
AutoTrain Gateway Improvements, Sanford, FL..........            750,000
Bear Creek Greenway, Medford, OR.....................            500,000
Bergen County Specialized Bus Transit, NJ............            974,000
Berwick Bridge, Somersworth, NH......................            500,000
Black Eagle Road Reconstruction, MT..................            500,000
Blair Bypass--South Corridor, NE.....................            974,000
B-Line Trail Extension, Bloomington, IN..............            500,000
Blue Earth CSAH 12 Extension/TH 14 Interchange, MN...            584,400
Bonneville Clark Couplet, NV.........................            487,000
Boot Road Extension Bridge over Brandywine Creek, PA.            500,000
Bossier Parish Congestion Relief Plan, Bossier                   838,300
 Parish, LA..........................................
Bradley Ave/SR-67 Interchange, CA....................            400,000
Brett Way Extension, OR..............................            292,200
Broad Street Parkway/Nashua River Bridge                         487,000
 Enhancements, NH....................................
Broadway and Kansas Avenue Repair Project, KS........            400,000
Broadway Bridge Replacement Project, WA..............          3,116,800
Brush Creek-Troost Avenue Streetscape Improvements,            1,000,000
 MO..................................................
Building of the Almonaster Bridge New Orleans, LA....            639,000
Byram-Clinton/Norrell Parkway, MS....................          2,750,000
Cambridge-Isanti Bike-Walking Trail, MN..............            400,000
Cannon AFB BRAC County Road Improvements, NM.........            974,000
Cape Girardeau Riverwalk Trail, MO...................          1,600,000
Capital Beltway South Side Mobility Study, MD........            500,000
Carson City Freeway--Phase II, NV....................            779,200
Centerway Arch Bridge and Trail Projects, NY.........            500,000
Central City, Trinity River Vision, Fort Worth, TX...          2,500,000
Cherry Street Railroad Grade Crossings Improvement               600,000
 Project, MA.........................................
Church Street Marketplace and Side Streets                       974,000
 Improvements, VT....................................
City of Doral Street Improvement Project, FL.........            500,000
City of Hialeah Street and Sidewalk Improvements, FL.            500,000
City of Hines Street Rehabilitation Project, OR......            292,200
City of Isanti Pedestrian Bridge over TH 65, MN......          1,200,000
City of Providence Street Paving, RI.................            779,200
City of Tuscaloosa Streetscape, AL...................          2,000,000
Clements Mill Bridge Replacement Project, Franklin               950,000
 County, VA..........................................
Coalfields Expressway, WV............................          1,948,000
Collins Road Improvements, Cedar Rapids, IA..........            974,000
Commerce Crossing Bridge over I-20, Rockdale County,             500,000
 GA..................................................
Community Transportation Association of America                1,400,000
 National Joblinks Program...........................
Computerized Traffic Control System, Morgantown, WV..          1,000,000
Construct Four Lane Highway 20 West of U.S. 71, IA...            750,000
Construction of Four Lane Highway on US 69 in                  1,500,000
 Crawford, Bourbon, and Cherokee Counties, KS........
Construction of the I-278 Environmental Shield,                  700,000
 Queens, NY..........................................
County D Extension, Hurley, WI.......................            950,000
County Road R Improvements, Plover, WI...............          1,900,000
Countywide Regional Loop Trail, Mount Clemens, MI....          1,948,000
Croix Street, Negaunee, MI...........................            500,000
Cross Creek Widening, Tampa, FL......................            500,000
Croton-Harmon Train Station Parking Lot Flood                    700,000
 Mitigation and Improvement, NY......................
Davie Road Upgrade, Davie, FL........................            500,000
Deck Repair Chester Bridge, Perry County, MO.........            500,000
Defense Access Road, MS..............................          1,000,000
Demolition of Congress Street Bridge, Bridgeport, CT.            500,000
Denali Commission Transportation Program, AK.........          2,313,250
Design of Comprehensive City-Wide Mass Transit System            400,000
 in Ponce, PR........................................
Downtown Streetscape and Pedestrian Improvements                 300,000
 (Final Phase), Borough of North Plainfield, NJ......
Downtown Streetscaping Project, Pittsfield, MA.......            500,000
Downtown Tacoma Streetscapes Improvement Project, WA.            800,000
Eagle County Airport I-70 Interchange, CO............            500,000
East 24th Street Project, Cleveland, OH..............            500,000
East Avenue Resurfacing, IL..........................            600,000
East Chester Street Improvement, TN..................            785,000
East Loop, Brownsville, TX...........................            500,000
East Main Street Sidewalk Project, NY................             40,000
East Metropolitan Corridor, MS.......................          2,750,000
Eastgate Area Improvements, Clermont County, OH......            900,000
Edwards County Bone Gap Road, IL.....................            400,000
Elm Street/Gas Light District Improvements, NH.......          1,000,000
Emergency Access Ramp to Interstate 84, NY...........            974,000
Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements,             1,245,000
 Monroe County, NY...................................
Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements,               600,000
 Montgomery County, NY...............................
Engineering Feasibility Study of Bike/Hike Connector,            100,000
 Hiram, OH...........................................
Fairfax County Parkway Interchange Improvements at               584,400
 Fair Lakes Boulevard and Monument Drive, VA.........
Fairforest at N. Blackstock Rd Intersection and Rail             500,000
 Crossing, SC........................................
Flyover Connecting Highway 146 and Spur 330, TX......            400,000
FM 1460 Roadway Improvements, Round Rock, TX.........            750,000
FNSB Road and Bridge Improvements, AK................          1,000,000
Garfield Avenue Improvements (Gage Avenue to Ferguson            500,000
 Drive), CA..........................................
Gateway Corridor University of Mississippi Research              500,000
 Park Extension, MS..................................
Gluckstadt Road and Interchange, MS..................          1,500,000
Goddard Road Reconstruction from Grant Street to                 500,000
 Wayne Road, City of Romulus, Wayne County, MI.......
Golden Gate Bridge Seismic Retrofit Construction               1,948,000
 Project, CA.........................................
Grand View University Pedestrian Overpass, Des                   400,000
 Moines, IA..........................................
Greensboro Greenway, NC..............................            487,000
Hammond Drive Roadway Upgrades/City of Sandy Springs,            500,000
 GA..................................................
Harden Street Reconstruction, Columbia, SC...........            500,000
Hardy County Complex Access Road, WV.................          1,461,000
Hastings Bridge/Highway 61 Right-of-Way and                      487,000
 Construction, MN....................................
Hattiesburg Longleaf Trace Rails To Trails, MS.......            500,000
Henry Avenue Bridge Reconstruction, WI...............            974,000
High Bridge Renovation, MT...........................            292,200
High Street Reconstruction, Village of Fairport, NY..            525,000
Highway 226: Highway 67 to Highway 49, AR............            974,000
Highway 63 Interchange Improvements, AR..............          1,948,000
Hogan Road Traffic Improvements, ME..................            550,000
Holly Springs Road, MS...............................          1,500,000
Holmes Avenue Overpass Project, AL...................            500,000
Hunt Highway Improvements, Pinal County, AZ..........            500,000
Hutchins Street Reconstruction, Berlin, NH...........            779,200
Hwy. 167: Louisiana State Line to Sheridan, AR.......          1,363,600
Hybrid Composite-Concrete Bridges, ME................          2,000,000
I-295 Meadowville Road Interchange, VA...............            750,000
I-40 Boulevard Construction, OK......................          1,000,000
I-44/US-62, OK.......................................            500,000
I-44 Range Line Road Interchange, MO.................          1,550,000
I-64 Interchange 2.3 miles West of SR 135, Harrison              500,000
 County, IN..........................................
I-69, TX.............................................            500,000
I-69, TX.............................................            500,000
I-73, SC.............................................            800,000
I-76 Access/Martha Avenue Connection, Akron, OH......            750,000
IL Route 120 Corridor, Lake County, IL...............            600,000
Improvement of the South Connector Street, SD........          1,250,000
Improvements and Safety Upgrades, North Providence,              900,000
 RI..................................................
Improvements to 159th Street, KS.....................          2,000,000
Indian River Inlet Bridge, DE........................            779,200
Indiana State Road 205 Corridor, IN..................            500,000
Infrastructure Improvement at Height of Land, ME.....          2,900,000
Interchange and Service Road at Anchor Lake, MS......          1,000,000
International Drive Extension/Folsom South Canal                 500,000
 Bridge, CA..........................................
International Railway Station/Intermodal                         779,200
 Transportation Center, NY...........................
Intersection Improvements Around State Center,                   800,000
 Baltimore, MD.......................................
Interstate 225 and Colfax Avenue Reconfiguration,                850,000
 Aurora, CO..........................................
Interstate 69/Great River Bridge: Highway 65--MS               1,948,000
 Highway 1, AR.......................................
Interstate 75/Everglades Blvd Interchange, FL........            500,000
Iowa Highway 14-57 Complete Streets Corridor                   2,000,000
 Improvements, Parkersburg, IA.......................
Iowa Highway 92 Reconstruction.......................            950,000
Jeannette Truck Route, PA............................            750,000
Jenny Barker Road/K-156/Mary St. Reconfiguration, KS.            500,000
Jerome and Mousette Lanes, Cahokia, IL...............            300,000
Johnson Street from Center Avenue to Columbus Avenue             300,000
 Reconstruction, MI..................................
Kettering Gateway Project, Flint, MI.................          1,168,800
King Coal Highway, WV................................          1,948,000
Kittitas Highway Safety Improvements, WA.............          1,948,000
Knoxville Road Reconstruction, Mercer County, IL.....            487,000
LA 1 Goldenmeadow to Port Fourchon, Lafourche Parish,            974,000
 LA..................................................
Lafayette Interchange, MO............................          1,000,000
Lake Harbour Drive, MS...............................          1,500,000
Lake Merritt Improvement Project, CA.................            827,900
Lakeview Trail, Mountlake Terrace Center to the                  200,000
 Interurban Trail, WA................................
Larry Holmes Drive Traffic Calming, Easton, PA.......            250,000
Lesner Bridge Replacement Project, Virginia Beach, VA            750,000
Lewis and Clark Legacy Trail, ND.....................            681,800
Lewis Street Overpass, Pasco, WA.....................            750,000
Livingston Railroad Grade Separation Undercrossing,              584,400
 MT..................................................
Longfellow Bridge Approach and Gateway, MA...........            974,000
Loop 494 Upgrade, TX.................................            400,000
Lower Main Street Infrastructure Project, Claremont,             487,000
 NH..................................................
Lowry Avenue Bridge Replacement, MN..................            487,000
M Street SE Grade Separation Project, Auburn, WA.....            750,000
M-231 Improvements, Ottawa County, MI................            500,000
Mahoning Road Infrastructure and Economic Development          1,000,000
 Project, OH.........................................
Main Street Improvements, Estancia, NM...............            250,000
Main Street Realignment Project, Torrington, CT......            750,000
Manadas Hike and Bike Pathways, TX...................            300,000
Marlton Circle Elimination--West Main Street/Old                 600,000
 Marlton Pike Connector, NJ..........................
McQueen Smith Road Expansion, Prattville, AL.........          1,000,000
MD 4, MD 2/4 to MD 235, including Thomas Johnson                 750,000
 Bridge and MD 235 Intersection, MD..................
MD 404 Improvements in Caroline, Talbot, and Queen               950,000
 Anne's Counties, MD.................................
Mill Plain Boulevard/SE 136th Avenue Intersection,               300,000
 Vancouver, WA.......................................
Millennium Technology Park, New Castle, PA...........            500,000
Missouri River Freight Corridor Development Study, MO            900,000
MLK-Lincoln Avenue Railroad Grade Separation, WA.....          1,948,000
MO-13 and MO-82 Interchange, MO......................          1,250,000
Monterey Bay Sanctuary Scenic Trail, CA..............            800,000
Morganton Road Roadway Improvements, Blount County,              750,000
 TN..................................................
Natural Bridge Avenue (MO Route 115) Connection                  500,000
 Planning, Engineering & Environmental Project, MO...
Naugatuck River Greenway, CT.........................            974,000
Nevada Pacific Parkway, NV...........................            535,700
New York State Route 12, NY..........................            487,000
Newberg-Dundee Transportation Improvement Project, OR            389,600
Newport Cliff Walk Restoration, RI...................            487,000
Ninth Avenue Extension and Overpass Construction,                750,000
 Belton, TX..........................................
North Broad Street Redevelopment Project, NJ.........            487,000
North Carolina 28 in Macon County, NC................            700,000
North Fond du Lac Railyard Overpass, Village of North            500,000
 Fond du Lac, Fond du Lac County, WI.................
North Main Street, Columbia, SC......................            500,000
North Street Improvements, Crown Point, IN...........            900,000
Northern Avenue Bridge Rehabilitation, MA............          1,266,200
Northern Bypass I-66, KY.............................            950,000
Northwest 66th Avenue Reconstruction, IA.............            584,400
Northwest Transportation Corridor Study, Grimes, IA..            300,000
Oak Street Extension, Schererville, IN...............            250,000
Oakridge-Westfir Ride Center, OR.....................            400,000
Ohio 16 Dresden-Coshocton Connector, Coshocton, OH...            400,000
Ohio Hub Plan including Toledo-Cleveland-Detroit                 938,300
 Passenger Rail Development, OH......................
Oktibbeha County Southern Bypass, MS.................            500,000
Old Taylor Road Roundabouts, MS......................            500,000
Ontario Oregon Railroad Underpass Rehabilitation and             292,200
 Reconstruction, OR..................................
Palatlakaha Bridge Replacement, Lake, FL.............            750,000
Paramount Boulevard Improvements, Monterey Park, CA..            250,000
Park and Ride Lots, Broward County, FL...............            500,000
Park Avenue Realignment, Chardon, OH.................            136,000
Park Avenue Revitalization Project, East Hartford, CT            400,000
Park Loop Trail, Sagamore Hills Township, OH.........            343,000
Park Road Bridge Replacement and Dubuque Street                1,500,000
 Elevation Project, Iowa City, IA....................
Pedestrian, ADA and Safety Improvements on Mather                200,000
 Field Road, Rancho Cordova, CA......................
Philadelphia Museum of Art Transportation Improvement            750,000
 Program, PA.........................................
Pioneer Street Rail Overpass Safety Improvement                  974,000
 Project, WA.........................................
Port of Everett Infrastructure Improvement Project,            1,168,800
 WA..................................................
Porter Rockwell, Herriman, UT........................          1,000,000
Portland Regional Traffic Congestion Improvements, ME            800,000
Potrero Boulevard/SR 60 Interchange in Beaumont, San             750,000
 Bernardino County, CA...............................
R-170 Landslide Road Replacement, WA.................          1,948,000
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Route 109/Main              400,000
 Street, Medway, MA..................................
Reconstruction and Upgrade of 2300 West between 1900           1,500,000
 South and the Interstate 15 West Frontage Road in
 Lehi, UT............................................
Reconstruction of County C, Bayfield County, WI......          1,400,000
Reconstruction of Rib Mountain, WI...................            500,000
Reconstruction of Route 571 at Route 527, Toms River             300,000
 Township, NJ........................................
Reconstruction of the Hull Street Overpass, Clovis,              500,000
 NM..................................................
Regional East-West Trail and Bikeway, Albuquerque, NM            974,000
Remediation and Reuse of Reclaimed Port Land, DE.....            730,500
Replacement and Rehabilitation of Municipal Bridges              500,000
 and Trestles, City of Ketchikan, AK.................
Reunion Interchange, MS..............................          1,500,000
Rickenbacker Intermodal East-West Connector, OH......          2,000,000
River Greenway Project, Second Phase, NJ.............            400,000
Road Improvements from 57th Street North to 1000 ft            1,461,000
 South of 26th Street, Sioux Falls, SD...............
Road Improvements in Englishtown Borough, NJ.........            750,000
Road Resurfacing, Hayneville, AL.....................            300,000
Roger Snedden Dr. Extension/Grade Separation--Phase            1,000,000
 1, IA...............................................
Ronald Reagan Parkway, Hendricks County, IN..........            400,000
Rosecrans Avenue/405 Freeway Ramp Widening Project,              500,000
 Hawthorne, CA.......................................
Route 1/Route 123 Interchange Improvements, VA.......            584,400
Route 123 Bridge Replacement, Fairfax, VA............            300,000
Route 160 and Route 60 Interchange Improvements, MO..          1,000,000
Route 22 Sustainable Corridor, NJ....................          1,250,000
Route 25--Safety and Roadway Improvements, Jackson,              650,000
 MO..................................................
Route 27 Renaissance 2000 Project, NJ................            974,000
Route 30 Intersection Improvements and Add-Lanes                 250,000
 Widening, Frankfort, IL.............................
Route 34 in Bollinger County and Cape Girardeau                  500,000
 County, MO--Safety Improvements and Resurfacing.....
Route 60/422 Interchange, PA.........................            487,000
Route 63 in Phelps County and Maries County, MO--                500,000
 Engineering and Right of Way Improvements...........
Route 67 in Butler County--Extend Existing Four-Lane             500,000
 South to Route 160, MO..............................
Route 72, East Road, NJ..............................            500,000
Rt 480 Pedestrian Bridge and Safety Improvements, WV.            400,000
Rucker Road at US-77 Project, KS.....................            500,000
Rutland Center Street Marketplace Improvements, VT...            974,000
San Bernardo Avenue Restoration, Lardeo, TX..........            500,000
San Gabriel Trench Project, CA.......................            500,000
San Jose Boulevard Improvements, Carlsbad, NM........            987,000
Schuyler Heim Bridge Replacement and SR-47                       500,000
 Expressway, CA......................................
Scott Ranch Road Extension, Show Low, AZ.............            900,000
SE Main Avenue, 20th, 21st Street Underpass and                  500,000
 Ancillary Improvements, City of Moorhead, MN........
Sellwood Bridge Replacement Project, OR..............          1,266,200
Seventh Standard Road Grade Separation Project, CA...            400,000
Sidewalk Construction Project for City Schools, City             180,000
 of Alliance, OH.....................................
Sitka Waterfront Development, AK.....................            487,000
Sixth Street Corridor, White County, IN..............            400,000
Smith River Trails--Rail/Trail Project, VA...........            300,000
South Bronx Greenway, Randall's Island Connector,                500,000
 Bronx, NY...........................................
South Street Reconstruction and Streetscape                      974,000
 Improvements, NY....................................
Southeast Connector, IA..............................          1,948,000
Southwest Arterial Project, IA.......................            389,600
SR 426/CR 419 Improvement Project, Oviedo, FL........          1,000,000
SR52 East/West Improvements, San Diego, CA...........            400,000
St. John's Heritage Parkway Interchanges, Cities of            2,000,000
 Melbourne and Palm Bay, Brevard County, FL..........
St. Petersburg City Trails, FL.......................            500,000
State Route 180 East, CA.............................            800,000
State Route 24/48, MS................................          1,900,000
State Trunk Highway 64, WI...........................          1,400,000
Staten Island Ferry Campus Shuttle Bus Service, NY...            381,490
Street and Utility Reconstruction Main Avenue, Park              730,500
 Rapids, MN..........................................
Sue Ann Big Crow and Oglala Trail and Bike Path                  487,000
 enhancement, Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, SD......
Sumner County Regional Airport airport road re-                1,500,000
 location, TN........................................
TH 169/I-494 Interchange Construction, MN............            400,000
TH 610 construction, MN..............................            400,000
The Commonwealth Avenue Road Improvement Project, MA.            600,000
The Hamilton Township Safe Streets to Schools                    350,000
 Program, NJ.........................................
Thetford Village Pedestrian Improvements, VT.........            438,300
Three Locks Road (County Route 205) Concrete Arch                250,000
 Bridge Replacement, OH..............................
Timber Bridge on US 24, Limon, CO....................            800,000
Tooze Road, OR.......................................            800,000
Town Center Streetscape Improvements, Eastchester, NY            350,000
Town of Haymarket Pedestrian Connection, VA..........            500,000
Town of Occoquan Pedestrian Safety Enhancement, VA...            150,000
Town of Purcellville Main Street and Maple Avenue                500,000
 Intersection Improvements, VA.......................
Traffic Signal System Improvement Project, Union                 300,000
 City, NJ............................................
Transit Related Improvements for National Avenue,                500,000
 Monroe Street, Brick City, and John Q. Hammons
 Parkway, Springfield, MO............................
Trapelo Road and Belmont Corridor, MA................            330,000
Tuolumne River Regional Park Gateway Trail System, CA            350,000
Tupelo Thoroughfare Northern Loop, MS................          2,800,000
Twin Lakes Infrastructure Project, City of Roseville,          1,000,000
 MN..................................................
U.S. 195 Safety Improvements, Cheney-Spokane Road              1,948,000
 Interchange, WA.....................................
U.S. 59/Alabama Grade Separation Project, MO.........          1,000,000
U.S. Highway 65, Benton County, MO...................            500,000
U.S. Highway 90 Capacity Improvement, FL.............            500,000
U.S. Highway 97 and J Street Intersection Project, OR            681,800
U.S. Route 322 Corridor Safety Improvements, Centre              750,000
 County, PA..........................................
U.S. Route 33m, WV...................................            400,000
U.S. Route 35, WV....................................          1,948,000
U.S. Route 422 Westbound Off-Ramp Improvements at the          1,266,200
 Oaks Interchange, PA................................
Union Avenue Underpass over SR 183, OH...............            150,000
United States Route 17/Dominion Boulevard, VA........            487,000
University Boulevard Widening, Clive, IA.............            300,000
University of Kentucky Academy for Community                   1,000,000
 Transportation Innovation, KY.......................
Upper Big Thompson Canyon Bridge Replacement, CO.....            600,000
Urban Collector Road, MS.............................          2,000,000
US 16B Improvements near US 16 to near SD 79, SD.....            500,000
US 20 Corridor Improvements, Toledo, OH..............            750,000
US 287 in Berthoud, CO...............................            300,000
US 301, Charles County, MD...........................            750,000
US 395 from Moana to Stead, NV.......................            681,800
US 395 North Spokane Corridor, WA....................            400,000
US 70 Bridge Repairs, TN.............................          1,500,000
US 93 Corridor and Kalispell Bypass, MT..............          2,922,000
US Highway 12, Burbank to Walla Walla, Phase 7, WA...            400,000
US Highway 27/State Road 80 right-of-way for the                 500,000
 realignment of the SR 80 and US 27 intersection, FL.
US Highway 69 Corridor Study, Bourbon and Crawford               500,000
 Counties, KS........................................
US HWY 287 Bypass, TX................................            500,000
US Hwy 72 Widening in Athens, AL.....................            450,000
US-25 Widening, Laurel County, KY....................            750,000
US-63, MO............................................          1,000,000
Valencia County's Manzano Expressway, NM.............            870,000
Vidalia Port Access Road, Vidalia, LA................          1,461,000
Village of Owego Riverwalk, NY.......................            500,000
Wadhams Road Bridge over Black River, St. Clair, MI..          2,922,000
Warrensville/Van Aken Transit Oriented, OH...........            500,000
Washington and Prospect Street Signalization Project,            600,000
 MA..................................................
Waterfront Redevelopment Access Project, WA..........          1,948,000
Wealthy Street Extension, Grand Rapids, MI...........            500,000
West County Line Road, MS............................          1,500,000
West Grand Avenue Extension, IA......................          1,050,000
West Haven Rail Passenger Station, CT................            974,000
West Virginia Route 10, WV...........................          1,948,000
Westlake Transit Improvement, CA.....................            500,000
Widening of US Highway 278 and St. Bernard Bridge,               750,000
 Cullman, AL.........................................
Widening of West International Speedway Boulevard (US-           600,000
 92), FL.............................................
Williamsport Healthy Communities--Pathways to Health             750,000
 Project, PA.........................................
Woodville Highway, Leon County, FL...................            250,000
Yonkers Avenue Improvements, NY......................            500,000
Yucca Loma Bridge/Interstate 15 Congestion Relief                750,000
 Project, CA.........................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement specifies that the Federal share 
payable on each program, project, or activity shall be 100 
percent; however, the conferees recognize the importance of a 
local match as a sign of local support for the project. In 
addition, the conference agreement allows funds to be 
transferred to another Federal agency if so requested by a 
State.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

      Section 120 retains the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that distributes the federal-aid highways 
program obligation limitation.
      Section 121 retains the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that allows funds received by the Bureau 
of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products to 
be credited to the federal-aid highways account.
      Section 122 includes a provision similar to language 
proposed by the Senate that appropriates an additional 
$650,000,000 for highway infrastructure. The conference 
agreement distributes this funding to the States in the same 
proportion as the fiscal year 2010 obligation limitation to be 
used for activities eligible under the Surface Transportation 
Program. Bill language is included that specifies that each 
program, project, and activity funded under this section shall 
be administered under the planning, environmental, and other 
Federal rules required under title 23, United States Code, and 
that the Federal share payable on each program, project, or 
activity shall be 80 percent. The House bill contained no 
similar provision.
      Section 123 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that provides requirements for any waiver of Buy 
American requirements. The House bill contained no similar 
provision.
      Section 124 retains the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that prohibits tolling in Texas, with 
exceptions.
      Section 125 retains the provision as proposed by the 
House that clarifies funding for various projects which were 
included in previous appropriations Acts. The Senate bill 
contained no similar provision.
      Section 126 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in Rhode Island 
which was included in section 1702 of Public Law 109-59. The 
House bill contained no similar provision.
      Section 127 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in Florida which 
was included in section 1702 of Public Law 109-59. The House 
bill contained no similar provision.
      Section 128 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in California which 
was included in a previous appropriations Act. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.
      Section 129 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in Kansas which was 
included in section 1702 of Public Law 109-59. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.
      Section 130 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in Alabama which 
was included in a previous appropriations Act. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.
      Section 131 retains the provision as proposed by the 
Senate that clarifies funding for a project in Nevada which was 
included in section 1702 of Public Law 109-59. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND PROGRAMS

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement includes a liquidation of 
contract authorization and a limitation on obligations of 
$239,828,000 for the operating expenses of and motor carrier 
safety research by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration (FMCSA), as proposed by the House instead of 
$238,500,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of this limitation, 
$8,543,000 is to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2012, as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement provides funding in the following manner:

        Program                                                  Funding
Operating expenses......................................    $183,051,000
Research and technology.................................       8,543,000
Information management..................................      34,722,000
Regulatory development..................................       9,728,000
Outreach and education..................................       2,784,000
Commercial motor vehicle operators grants...............       1,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
    Total...............................................     239,828,000

      The conference agreement prohibits any funds relating to 
outreach and education from being transferred to another 
agency, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      High risk carriers.--The conferees include bill language, 
as proposed by both the House and the Senate, that directs the 
FMCSA to report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on the agency's progress in meeting the 
requirement to conduct compliance reviews on high risk 
carriers. The reports are due March 30, 2010, and September 30, 
2010, as proposed by the House.
      On board data recorders.--The conferees urge the FMCSA to 
issue its final rule on the use of electric on board data 
recorders (EOBR) to collect and maintain data on driver hours 
of service and accident conditions as soon as possible. 
Furthermore, the conferees direct the FMCSA to report to the 
House and the Senate Committees on Appropriation within 90 days 
after the enactment of this Act on the specific actions the 
agency will take to incentivize industry-wide use of EOBR and 
the metrics that will be used to measure the adoption of EOBRs 
installation. In addition, the conferees direct the FMCSA to 
report by October 1, 2010, on the success of the agency's 
efforts to incentivize EOBR adoption, including a review of the 
agency's metrics.
      Research and technology education.--The conferees are 
encouraged by the FMCSA's efforts to target research and 
technology funding towards safety technologies that promise to 
reduce fatalities and improve safety. However, the conferees 
believe that the FMCSA should more aggressively promote these 
safety technologies and, therefore, direct the FMCSA to 
dedicate a portion of its education and outreach budget, as 
appropriate, to educating motor carrier operators on available 
safety technologies and promote those most likely to result in 
meaningful safety benefits.

                      MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

                         (INCLUDING RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement provides a liquidating cash 
appropriation and a limitation on obligations of $310,070,000 
for motor carrier safety grants, as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate.
      The conference agreement provides funding for motor 
carrier safety grants as follows:

        Program                                                  Funding
Motor carrier safety assistance program.................    $212,070,000
Commercial driver's license (CDL) program improvement 
    grants..............................................      25,000,000
Border enforcement grants...............................      32,000,000
Performance and registration information system 
    management grant....................................       5,000,000
Commercial vehicle information systems and networks 
    deployment..........................................      25,000,000
Safety data improvement grants..........................       3,000,000
CDL information system modernization....................       8,000,000

      The conferees direct that of the funds provided for the 
motor carrier safety assistance program $29,000,000 shall be 
distributed as grants to States and local governments for new 
entrant motor carrier audits, as proposed by the House and the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement also permanently rescinds 
$1,610,661 in unobligated balances, instead of $1,530,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The House bill contained no similar 
provision.

                          MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement permanently rescinds $6,415,501 
in unobligated balances from the motor carrier safety program, 
instead of $3,400,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.

                 NATIONAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PROGRAM

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement permanently rescinds $3,232,639 
in unobligated balances from the national motor carrier safety 
program, instead of $400,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
House bill contained no similar provision.

 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

      Section 135 retains the provision proposed by both the 
House and the Senate that subjects funds appropriated in this 
Act to the terms and conditions of section 350 of Public Law 
107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28, including that 
the Secretary submit a report on Mexico-domiciled motor 
carriers.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH

      The conference agreement provides $140,427,000 from the 
general fund for highway and traffic safety activities, instead 
of $131,986,000 as proposed by the House and $135,803,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Of this amount, a total of $35,543,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2011.

                        OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement provides an appropriation for 
liquidating cash of contract authorization of $105,500,000 from 
the highway trust fund for payment of obligations incurred in 
carrying out the provisions of the highway safety research and 
development program as authorized by section 403 of title 23, 
United States Code, as proposed by the Senate instead of 
$108,642,000 as proposed by the House. The conference agreement 
specifies that the funds are available until expended, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement limits obligations from the 
highway trust fund to $105,500,000 for authorized activities 
associated with the highway safety research and development 
program, as proposed by the Senate instead of $108,642,000 as 
proposed by the House. Of this limitation, a total of 
$26,908,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2011, 
and shall be in addition to any limitation imposed on 
obligations in future fiscal years, as proposed by the House.
      The following table summarizes the total funding level 
provided in the conference agreement for operations and 
research (general fund and highway trust fund combined) by 
budget activity.

Salaries and benefits...................................     $72,838,000
Travel..................................................       1,023,000
Operating expenses......................................      25,238,000
Contract programs:
    Safety performance (rulemaking).....................      21,688,000
    Safety assurance (enforcement)......................      18,077,000
    Highway safety programs.............................      44,609,000
    Research and analysis...............................      62,453,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
        Total...........................................     245,927,000

                        ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $99,100,000 for the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA's) 
salaries and benefits, travel, and other operating expenses, as 
requested in the budget. This funding level is sufficient to 
fund 527 full-time equivalent staff years. The conferees note 
that NHTSA currently has 527 full-time equivalent staff years 
on-board because the agency has hired additional personnel in 
advance of its appropriation for fiscal year 2010. The 
conferees direct the agency to refrain from this practice in 
the future and encourage the agency to provide better 
justification for any additional positions in future budget 
requests.

                    SAFETY PERFORMANCE (RULEMAKING)

      Consistent with the budget request, the conference 
agreement provides $21,688,000 for NHTSA's safety performance 
standards (rulemaking) programs to fund the following 
activities:

Safety standards support................................      $2,300,000
New car assessment program..............................      10,393,000
Fuel economy program....................................       8,900,000
Climate control.........................................          20,000
Theft control and other programs........................          75,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
    Total...............................................      21,688,000

                     SAFETY ASSURANCE (ENFORCEMENT)

      Consistent with the budget request, the conference 
agreement provides $18,077,000 for the agency's safety 
assurance (enforcement) programs to fund the following 
activities:

Vehicle safety compliance...............................      $8,096,000
Safety defects investigations...........................       9,829,000
Odometer fraud investigations...........................         152,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
    Total...............................................      18,077,000

                        HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides the following amounts 
for highway safety programs:

Impaired driving........................................     $11,456,000
Drug impaired driving...................................       1,488,000
Safety countermeasures..................................       4,345,000
National occupant protection............................      10,282,000
Enforcement and justice services........................       3,501,000
Emergency medical services..............................       2,144,000
Enhance 9-1-1 activities................................       1,250,000
NEMSIS implementation...................................       1,500,000
Driver licensing........................................       1,002,000
Highway safety research.................................       7,541,000
International activities in behavioral traffic safety...         100,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
    Total...............................................      44,609,000

      Impaired driving.--The conferees include $1,250,000, 
which is $250,000 more than the budget request, to support 
NHTSA's partnership with leading automobile manufacturers in 
the Automotive Coalition for Traffic Safety (ACTS) to develop 
alcohol detection technologies that could be installed in a 
vehicle to prevent drunk driving. This additional funding is 
for the development of advanced alcohol detection technologies 
that are less intrusive and hold the most promise for being 
accepted by the general public.

                         RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS

      The conference agreement provides the following amounts 
for research and analysis:

Safety systems..........................................      $8,226,000
Biomechanics............................................      11,000,000
Heavy vehicles..........................................       2,115,000
Crash avoidance and human-vehicle performance...........       8,104,000
Hydrogen fuel cell and alternative fuel vehicle system..       4,500,000
National Center for Statistics and Analysis:
    Traffic records.....................................       1,650,000
    Fatality analysis reporting system..................       8,472,000
    National automotive sampling system.................      12,530,000
    State data systems..................................       2,490,000
    Special crash investigations........................       1,700,000
    Data analysis program...............................       1,666,000
        Total, Research and Analysis....................      62,453,000

      Hydrogen fuel cell and alternative fuel vehicle system.--
The conferees provide $4,500,000 for research into the safety 
of vehicles that use alternative fuels, instead of $1,000,000 
as proposed by the House and $10,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The funding provided for alternative fuels research 
shall be used for safety and other related research for 
vehicles that operate on alternative fuel vehicle technologies, 
such as lithium ion battery technology, compressed natural gas 
fuel tanks, hydrogen, fuel cell, and other alternative fuel 
vehicles.

                        NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement provides a liquidating cash 
appropriation of $4,000,000 for the national driver register 
and specifies that the funds are available until expended, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement also limits obligations from the 
highway trust fund for the national driver register to 
$4,000,000, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                 NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER MODERNIZATION

      The conference agreement provides $3,350,000 for the 
modernization of the national driver register and specifies 
that these funds are to remain available until September 30, 
2011, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                     HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS

                (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement provides $619,500,000 to 
liquidate contract authorizations for highway traffic safety 
grants to remain available until expended, as proposed by both 
the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement also limits obligations for 
highway traffic safety grants to $619,500,000, as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate. The conference agreement 
includes separate obligation limitations for each of the 
agency's safety grant programs and specifies that the 
limitation provided for safety belt performance grants shall 
remain available until September 30, 2011, and shall be in 
addition to any limitation imposed on obligations in future 
fiscal years, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY 
                             ADMINISTRATION

                        (INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)

      Section 140 retains the provision as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate that provides funding for travel and 
related expenses for State management reviews and highway 
safety core competency development training.
      Section 141 retains the provision as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate that exempts obligation authority that was 
made available in previous public laws for multiple years from 
limitations on obligations for the current year.
      Section 142 retains the provision proposed by the Senate 
that rescinds unobligated contract authority authorized from 
the highway trust fund for NHTSA's operation and research 
activities that will not be available for obligation because of 
limitations on obligations imposed on those funds in previous 
acts. The House bill contained no similar provision.
      Section 143 retains the provision proposed by the Senate 
that rescinds unobligated contract authority authorized from 
the highway trust fund for NHTSA's highway safety grant 
programs that will not be available for obligation because of 
limitations on obligations imposed on those funds in previous 
acts. The House bill contained no similar provision.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         SAFETY AND OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $172,270,000 for safety 
and operations of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) 
instead of $172,533,000 proposed by the House and $171,770,000 
proposed by the Senate. Of the funds provided, $12,300,000 is 
available until expended as proposed by the Senate.
      Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008.--Within the total 
funding $1,500,000 is included to hire 9 FTEs for fiscal year 
2010 to implement the regulatory and programmatic requirements 
of the Rail Safety and Improvement Act of 2008, Public Law 110-
432, instead of $3,000,000 and 17.5 FTE as proposed by the 
House.
      Next Generation Corridor Equipment Pool Committee.--Also 
within the total is $2,000,000 for grants to Amtrak and States 
for participation in the Next Generation Corridor Equipment 
Pool Committee that was authorized under section 305 of the 
Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act, instead of 
$3,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                   RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $37,613,000 for 
railroad research and development, instead of $37,145,000 as 
proposed by the House and $34,145,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within the funds provided, the following projects are 
recommended:

Caltrain--Positive Train Control System, CA...................$1,250,000
Constructed Facilities Center at West Virginia University, WV.   243,500
Metrolink--Positive Train Control, CA.........................   487,000
PEERS Rail Grade Crossing Safety, Statewide, IL...............   487,000

      Rail-highway crossing hazard eliminations.--The following 
funding allocations for rail-highway grade crossing projects 
and activities authorized under section 1103(f) of Public Law 
109-59 are recommended:

Altamont Commuter Express Alignment Project, CA...............  $300,000
Eastern Guilford Crossing Safety Rail Project, NC.............   300,000
Empire Corridor West Rail-Highway Grade Crossing Improvements, 
    Genesee County, NY........................................   750,000
Empire Corridor West Rail-Highway Grade Crossing Improvements, 
    Onieda County, NY......................................... 1,000,000
Empire Corridor West Rail-Highway Grade Crossing Improvements, 
    Wayne County, NY.......................................... 1,000,000
Metrolink Sealed Corridor Grade Crossing Improvements Los 
    Angeles Ventura Subdivision, CA...........................   400,000
Simi Valley-Moorpark Ventura Subdivision Grade Crossing 
    Improvements--Metrolink, CA...............................   750,000

      Additional funds provided beyond the budget request and 
the projects listed above may be used for studies and research 
authorized under Public Law 110-432.

              RAIL LINE RELOCATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides a total of $34,532,000 
for the rail line relocation and improvement program authorized 
by section 20154 of title 49, instead of $40,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $25,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Funds are directed to the following projects:

Blue Ridge and KC Southern Railroad Rail Line Rehabilitation 
    and Improvement, MO.......................................  $800,000
Coos County Rail Safety Upgrades, Coos County, NH.............   800,000
Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority Rail Access Improvement 
    Program, MI...............................................   500,000
Grade Crossing Mitigation, Galesburg, IL...................... 2,922,000
Grade Separated Railroad Crossing, TX.........................   500,000
Hoquiam Horn Spur Railroad Track Improvement Project, WA......   350,000
Industrial Park Rail Project, Greene County, AL...............   400,000
Minnesota Valley Regional Rail Authority Rehabilitation 
    Project, MN............................................... 1,000,000
North Rail Relocation Project, Cameron County, TX.............   400,000
Ogden Avenue Grade Separation, Aurora, IL..................... 1,000,000
Port of Alexandria Rail Spur, City of Alexandria, LA..........   487,000
Port of Monroe Dock and Industrial Park, Monroe County, MI....   500,000
Rail Safety Improvements, Tualatin, OR........................   250,000
Rail Spur Extension, Greater Ouachita Parish, LA.............. 2,000,000
Railroad Overpass, Blytheville, AR............................   500,000
Railway-Highway Grade Crossing Mitigation, Northeastern IL.... 1,948,000
Sacramento Intermodal Transportation Facility Rail Relocation, 
    CA........................................................   750,000
Salem County Short Rail Line Rehabilitation, NJ...............   750,000
Shelby Intermodal Hub, MT.....................................   974,000
South Orient Rail Line Rehabilitation in San Angelo, TX....... 1,000,000
South Orient Railroad Rehabilitation, TX...................... 1,000,000
Southern Rail Corridor, MN....................................   487,000
Springfield Rail Relocation, IL...............................   250,000
Transbay Transit Center, CA...................................   750,000
Waterfront Rail Reconstruction Project: Kawasaki SWIMO, NY....   779,200
West Freight Access Project, WA............................... 2,922,000
West Wye Rail Line Relocation, City of Springfield, MO........   500,000

                   RAILROAD SAFETY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides $50,000,000 to 
implement the railroad safety technology program authorized in 
the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose funding for this account. The 
conference agreement provides that to be eligible for 
assistance, an entity need not have developed plans required 
under 49 U.S.C. 20156(e)(2) and 20157. However, in order to 
qualify for a grant under this program, all applicants must 
demonstrate that they are currently developing the required 
plans.

    CAPITAL ASSISTANCE FOR HIGH SPEED RAIL CORRIDORS AND INTERCITY 
                         PASSENGER RAIL SERVICE

      The conference agreement provides $2,500,000,000 for 
grants to support intercity rail service and high speed rail 
corridors instead of $4,000,000,000 as proposed by the House 
and $1,200,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Additional High-Speed Rail Projects.--Section 502 of the 
Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 
authorized a program to establish public-private partnerships 
in high-speed rail development in eleven specific corridors. 
The conference agreement does not specifically include 
$5,000,000 for this purpose as proposed by the House. However, 
the conferees urge the Secretary and FRA to meet the intent of 
advancing high speed rail along the eleven named corridors 
through the funds provided in this and other Acts.
      Infrastructure Bank.--The conferees delete language 
proposed by the House which allowed high speed rail funds to be 
transferred for the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank 
if authorized prior to September 30, 2010. The Administration 
proposed the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank as a 
potential financing mechanism for a broad range of 
infrastructure needs including, within the realm of 
transportation, intermodal freight and passenger facilities; 
port infrastructure projects; public-private partnerships; and 
aircraft equipage requirements associated with the 
implementation of NextGen aviation technology. The conferees 
support strong investment in transportation infrastructure. 
However, given that this is a new and complex endeavor, the 
conferees believe that this proposal requires careful review 
and should be considered through the normal authorization 
process.

            NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION (AMTRAK)

      The conference agreement provides a total of 
$1,564,625,000 for the operations, capital improvements and 
debt service to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(Amtrak).

    OPERATING GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION

      The conference agreement provides $563,000,000 in 
operating grants to Amtrak instead of $553,348,000 as proposed 
by the House and the Senate. Such funds are available until 
expended, as proposed by the Senate.
      OIG savings reports.--The conference agreement modifies 
the House and Senate bills and requires the Department of 
Transportation (DOT) IG to provide semiannual reports to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on the estimated 
savings accrued as a result of all operation reforms instituted 
by Amtrak as well as any possibilities for future savings.
      Business plan.--The conference agreement modifies 
language included in the House and Senate bills and requires 
Amtrak to provide semiannual reports in electronic format 
regarding the pending business plan as well as progress against 
the milestones and target dates contained in its financial 
performance improvement plan provided in fiscal year 2009.
      Reduced fares.--The conference agreement directs Amtrak 
to report semi-annually on fares reduced by fifty percent or 
more from the normal, peak fare rather than quarterly as 
proposed by the House.
      Human emulation technology.--The conference agreement 
provides $3,000,000 for Amtrak to deploy and study the use of 
human emulation technology rather than $5,000,000 as was 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not provide funding for 
this purpose.

  CAPITAL AND DEBT SERVICE GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER 
                              CORPORATION

      The conference agreement provides $1,001,625,000 for 
capital and debt service payment grants to Amtrak as proposed 
by the Senate, instead of $929,625,000 as proposed by the 
House. Such funds are available until expended, as proposed by 
the Senate. Within the funds provided, the conference agreement 
includes $264,000,000 for Amtrak's debt service payment as 
proposed by the House and the Senate. The agreement modifies 
the Senate bill and requires that grants made after the first 
$200,000,000 be provided only on a reimbursable basis.
      Americans with Disabilities Act.--Under its six-year plan 
for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 
Amtrak would invest $144,000,000 during fiscal year 2010 for 
necessary capital investments. The conferees direct Amtrak to 
maintain this plan for complying with the requirements of ADA. 
The conferees also direct Amtrak to provide quarterly status 
reports on its ADA improvements and progress on the six-year 
plan.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

      Section 151 retains a provision that permits FRA to 
purchase promotional items for Operation Lifesaver as proposed 
by the House and Senate.
      Section 152 retains a provision that ceases the 
availability of Amtrak funds if the railroad contracts for 
services outside the United States for any service performed by 
a full-time or part-time Amtrak employee as of July 1, 2006 as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 153 retains a provision that allows FRA to 
receive and use cash or spare parts to repair, and replace 
damaged track inspection cars as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 154 requires the FRA Administrator to submit 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations on Amtrak 
on-time performance as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 155 clarifies funding for a project in California 
provided in the FY 2009 Appropriations Act, as proposed by the 
House.
      Section 156 clarifies funding for a project in New York 
provided in the FY 2008 Appropriations Act, as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Section 157 clarifies funding for a project in Washington 
provided in the FY 2009 Appropriations Act as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Section 158 modifies language for a railroad feasibility 
study in Springfield, IL proposed by the Senate.
      Section 159 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
requiring Amtrak to allow the transportation of firearms and 
ammunition in checked baggage.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $98,911,000 for the 
administrative expenses of the Federal Transit Administration 
(FTA) instead of $97,478,000 as proposed by the House and 
Senate. The conference agreement specifies that no more than 
$1,809,000 shall be provided for travel.
      The conference agreement directs FTA's operating plan to 
include a specific allocation of administrative expenses 
resources, including a delineation of full time equivalent 
employees, as proposed by the House. The conference agreement 
also requires transfers exceeding 5 percent to be approved by 
the House and Senate Appropriations Committees through the 
reprogramming process as proposed by the Senate.

                         FORMULA AND BUS GRANTS

                  (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORITY)

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

                          (HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement limits obligations from the Mass 
Transit Account for the formula and bus grant program to 
$8,343,171,000 as proposed by the House and Senate. The 
conferees acknowledge that the specific programmatic 
distribution of formula and bus grant funds will be determined 
through legislation extending or reauthorizing the surface 
transportation programs. The conference agreement includes a 
liquidating cash appropriation of $9,400,000,000.
      Bus and bus facilities.--Within the funds provided for 
bus and bus facilities, the FTA is directed to allocate funds 
to the following priorities:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
40 Fixed Route Transit Buses, DE.....................           $974,000
Abilene Paratransit buses, TX........................            200,000
ACE Boulder Highway Rapid Transit Project, NV........            750,000
Advanced Transit Program/METRO Solutions Bus                   1,420,000
 Expansion, Houston, TX..............................
Albany Heavy-Duty Buses, GA..........................            500,000
Albany Transit Multimodal Transportation Center, GA..          1,500,000
Allegan County Facility Improvement and Bus                      383,000
 Replacement, MI.....................................
Allegheny County Hybrid Buses, PA....................            700,000
Alternative Fuel SolanoExpress Bus Replacement,                  500,000
 Solano, CA..........................................
Ames Intermodal Facility, IA.........................            350,000
Ames Transit Facility Expansion, IA..................            750,000
Anaheim Regional Transportation Intermodal Center                725,000
 (ARTIC), Anaheim, CA................................
Anchorage People Mover, AK...........................            750,000
Area Transportation Authority of North Central PA,               360,000
 Rolling Stock.......................................
Arverne East Transit Plaza, Queens, NY...............            500,000
Audubon Area Community Services, bus facility,                 1,350,000
 Owensboro, KY.......................................
Automotive-Based Fuel Cell Hybrid Bus Program, DE....            487,000
Barry County Transit, Vehicle Equipment Replacement              127,200
 and Building Repair, Hastings, MI...................
BARTA Transportation Complex Franklin Street Station             250,000
 facilities, PA......................................
Beloit Transit System bus and bus facilities, Beloit,            150,000
 WI..................................................
Benzie Transportation Authority Bus & Bus Facilities,          1,000,000
 Honor, MI...........................................
Big Rapids Dial-A-Ride--Replacement buses, MI........            250,000
Bob Hope Airport Regional Transportation Center,                 550,000
 Burbank, CA.........................................
Brawley Transfer Terminal Transit Station, Brawley,              300,000
 CA..................................................
Bridgeport Intermodal Transportation Center, CT......          2,435,000
Broward County Transit Infrastructure Improvements,              500,000
 FL..................................................
Bryan Multi-Modal Transit Terminal and Parking                   400,000
 Facility, TX........................................
Bus Acquisition--Sun Metro, El Paso, TX..............          1,000,000
Bus and bus facilities, Kansas City, KS..............            600,000
Bus Facility Renovation, Oklahoma City, OK...........          1,000,000
Bus Replacement, Akron, OH...........................            500,000
Bus Shelter Replacement, Bal Harbour, FL.............            250,000
Buses and Bus Facility Improvement, Baldwin County,              275,000
 AL..................................................
Cache Valley Transit District Expansion, UT..........          2,000,000
CAD/AVL Bus Communications System for the Livingston             700,000
 Area Transportation Service, Livingston County, NY..
Cadillac/Wexford Transit Authority, replacement                  300,000
 buses, Cadillac, MI.................................
Cape Ann Transportation Authority (CATA) buses and               500,000
 fare boxes, MA......................................
Capital Area Transit (CAT) System Operations and                 750,000
 Maintenance Facility, Raleigh, NC...................
Capital Metro--Bus & Bus Facilities, Austin, TX......          2,000,000
Capitol Area Transportation Authority Buses and Bus              500,000
 Facilities, Lansing, MI.............................
Cedar Avenue Bus Rapid Transit, Phase I, Dakota                  681,800
 County, MN..........................................
Centre Area Transportation Authority CNG Articulated             300,000
 Transit Buses, PA...................................
Chatham Area Transit Bus and Bus Facilities,                   2,525,000
 Savannah, GA........................................
Chemung County Transit Intelligent Transportation                500,000
 System, NY..........................................
Chittenden County Transportation Authority Buses,              1,948,000
 Equipment, and Facilities, Including Downtown
 Burlington Transit Center Design, VT................
Chuckanut Park and Ride Facility, Skagit County, WA..            400,000
Cities of Salem and Beverly intermodal station                   700,000
 improvements, MA....................................
City of Belding Dial-A-Ride, Bus Facilities                       63,000
 Replacement Equipment, MI...........................
City of Belflower bus shelters, CA...................            500,000
City of Corona Dial-A-Ride Bus Replacement, CA.......            208,000
City of Dinuba CNG Fueling Station Expansion, CA.....            779,200
City of Doral Transit Circulator Program, FL.........            350,000
City of Hawaiian Gardens bus shelters, CA............            200,000
City of Imperial Downtown Transportation Park, CA....            974,000
City of Ionia, Dial-A-Ride Facility Improvements, MI.            100,000
City of Lubbock/Citibus, bus purchases, TX...........            750,000
City of Miramar Multi Service Center and Transit Hub,            500,000
 FL..................................................
City of Roma Bus Terminal, TX........................            300,000
City of Whittier bus shelters, CA....................            450,000
Clare County Transit--New Facility, MI...............            496,000
Clean Fuel Downtown Transit Circulator, Houston, TX..            800,000
Clean-fueled technology buses, Onondaga County, NY...            300,000
Clearwater Downtown Intermodal Terminal, St.                   1,250,000
 Petersburg, FL......................................
CNG Bus Replacement, The Fort Worth ``T''                        885,400
 Transportation Authority, Fort Worth, TX............
Colonial Intermodal Facility, Bluefield, WV..........            600,000
Colorado Transit Coalition Statewide Bus & Bus                 2,641,500
 Facilities, CO......................................
Columbia County Multi-Modal Transit Facility, OR.....            800,000
Commuter Bus Replacement, Charleston, SC.............          1,000,000
Concho Valley Multi-modal Terminal, TX...............            250,000
Coralville Intermodal Facility, Coralville, IA.......            750,000
Corpus Christi Regional Intermodal Transit Facility,             500,000
 Robstown, TX........................................
Corvallis Transit Bus Purchase, OR...................            600,000
C-Tran Transit Vehicle Replacement, WA...............          1,850,600
Deerfield Valley Transit Association Facilities,                 584,400
 Buses, and Equipment, VT............................
Eaton County Transportation Authority bus and bus              1,000,000
 facilities, Eaton County, MI........................
Ed Roberts Campus bus and bus facilities, Berkley, CA            250,000
Electric Hybrid Bus Upgrade Grants, IN...............          2,400,000
Erie Mass Transit Authority consolidation and transit          1,400,000
 facility, PA........................................
Fayetteville Multimodal Transportation Center, NC....            400,000
Fond du Lac Area Transit bus and bus facilities, WI..            308,000
Frankfort Transit Bus Facilities, KY.................            275,000
Galveston transit vehicle replacement, TX............            500,000
Great Falls Transit District Bus Replacements, MT....            974,000
Green Bay Metro Transit bus and bus facilities, Green          1,100,000
 Bay, WI.............................................
Green Vehicle Depot, North Hempsted, NY..............            600,000
GRTC Down Multimodal Center, Richmond, VA............            450,000
Hampton Roads Transit Bus Acquisition, Hampton, VA...          1,450,000
Harbor Point Bus Expansion, CT.......................            487,000
Harrisburg Transportation Center trainshed                       400,000
 rehabilitation phase II improvements, PA............
Harrison County Multimodal, MS.......................          2,000,000
HART Bus and Paratransit Acquisition, FL.............            500,000
Hobbs Transit Intermodal Facility, Hobbs, NM.........            900,000
Idaho Transit Coalition Bus & Bus Facilities, ID.....          1,000,000
Indianapolis ADA Compliant Bus Facility, Michigan and            500,000
 71st St, IN.........................................
IndyGo Bus Replacement, IN...........................            300,000
Intercity Transit Vehicle Acquisition, WA............          1,753,200
Intermodal Transit Facility/East Chestnut Street                 625,000
 Garage, Washington County, Pennsylvania.............
Jamaica Intermodal Station Plaza, NY.................            584,400
JATRAN Fleet Replacement, MS.........................            500,000
KCATA Bus Replacement, MO............................          2,000,000
Knoxville-Knox County CAC Transportation, TN.........            500,000
Lake Cumberland Community Action Agency, bus                      70,000
 equipment, KY.......................................
Lakeland Area Mass Transit District Bus Replacement              200,000
 and Facility Maintenance, FL........................
League City Park and Ride Facilities, TX.............            750,000
Lincoln Center Corridor Redevelopment Project, New               500,000
 York, NY............................................
Link Transit Vehicle Acquisition, WA.................          2,496,700
Illinois Downstate Bus & Bus Facilities, IL..........          3,896,000
Loop 101--Scottsdale Road Park and Ride, Scottsdale,             500,000
 AZ..................................................
Los Angeles Central Avenue Streetscape bus shelters              700,000
 and lighting, CA....................................
Lufkin Veterans Clinic Shuttle capital cost of                   300,000
 contracting, TX.....................................
LYNX Buses, Orlando, FL..............................          1,500,000
Lynx's Central Station improvements, Orlando, FL.....            550,000
Madison County Transit District Bus Replacement, IL..            600,000
Madison Metro Transit bus and bus facilities,                    150,000
 Madison, WI.........................................
Maine Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities...............            300,000
Marble Valley Regional Transit District Buses,                 1,461,000
 Facilities, and Equipment, VT.......................
Marshalltown Bus Replacement, IA.....................            315,000
MART North Leominster Commuter Rail Station Parking            2,500,000
 Structure, Leominster, MA...........................
MARTA Acquisition of Clean Fuel Buses, GA............          4,000,000
McBean Regional Transit Center Park & Ride Facility,             300,000
 CA..................................................
Metro St. Louis--Downtown Transfer Center, MO........          1,150,000
Metropolitan Tulsa Transit Authority, bus purchase,              750,000
 Tulsa, OK...........................................
Midland County Connection--Bus Replacement, MI.......            203,000
Milwaukee County Buses, WI...........................            500,000
Minneapolis Intermodal Station, MN...................            500,000
Monrovia Station Square Transit Village, CA..........            750,000
Morgan County System of Services, transit vans for                50,000
 HANDS Home Shelter for Girls, AL....................
Mt. Hope Station Transit Center, NY..................            800,000
Multi-Modal Parking Hub, Glen Cove, NY...............            500,000
Multimodal University Hub, Cincinnati, OH............          1,000,000
Municipal Transit Operators Coalition (MTOC) Bus/Bus             550,000
 Facility Improvement Project, CA....................
Newark Penn Station Intermodal Improvements, NJ......          1,948,000
Newton Rapid Transit Handicap Accessibility, MA......          1,000,000
Normal Multimodal Transportation Center, Normal, IL..            250,000
North Dakota Statewide Transit, ND...................          1,461,000
Northern New Jersey Intermodal Improvements..........          2,550,000
Northstar Phase II Commuter Buses, MN................             97,400
Norwalk/Santa Fe Springs Transportation Center                   500,000
 Improvements, Santa Fe Springs, CA..................
Ohio Clean & Green Statewide Bus Replacement Program,            692,200
 OH..................................................
Orbit Neighborhood Circulator, Tempe, AZ.............            500,000
Pace Chicago Paratransit Vehicles, IL................          1,300,000
Pace Milwaukee Avenue Transit Infrastructure                     400,000
 Enhancements, IL....................................
Pace Transit Information Signage, Harvey and Chicago             440,000
 Heights, IL.........................................
Pace transit infrastructure for Randall Road, Kane               800,000
 County, IL..........................................
Pacific Transit Vehicle Replacement, WA..............            250,000
Palm Tran Park and Ride Facilities, FL...............            800,000
Palmdale Transportation Center Train Platform                    370,000
 Extension, Palmdale, CA.............................
Passaic/Bergen County Intermodal Facilities, NJ......            800,000
Pennyrile Allied Community Services, bus facilities,             500,000
 KY..................................................
Pierce Transit Diesel-Electric Bus Acquisition, WA...          1,272,700
Pioneer Valley Transit Authority Bus Replacement                 750,000
 Program, Pioneer Valley Transit District, MA........
Port Angeles Gateway International Multi-modal                   550,000
 Transportation Center, WA...........................
Port of Anchorage Intermodal Expansion Project, AK...            487,000
Potomac and Rapahannock Transportation Commission              1,000,000
 Western Maintenance Facility, VA....................
Purchase Hybrid Buses, Lehigh and Northampton                    615,250
 Transportation Authority (LANTA), PA................
Rabbittransit Bus Facility, PA.......................            250,000
Ramapo Friends Helping Friends Medical Vans, NY......            135,000
Reconstruction of the University Circle Rapid                  2,000,000
 Station, OH.........................................
Regional Intermodal Terminal Center, JTA,                        400,000
 Jacksonville, FL....................................
Regional Transportation Management System, San Diego,            800,000
 CA..................................................
Rhode Island Senior Transportation buses, RI.........            300,000
Richmond Express (REX) Transit Centers, Fairfax                  500,000
 County, VA..........................................
Riehle Plaza Transportation Improvements for CityBus,            450,000
 Lafayette, IN.......................................
Riverside Transit Agency Bus Replacement Program, CA.          1,400,000
Roscommon County Transportation Authority--                      700,000
 Replacement buses, MI...............................
RTS Bus Replacement, City of Gainesville, Alachua                750,000
 County, FL..........................................
Rural Bus Program for Hawaii, Maui and Kauai, HI.....          3,419,400
Saginaw Transit Authority Regional Services Bus and              500,000
 Bus Facilities Project, Saginaw, MI.................
San Joaquin Regional Operations Facility                         500,000
 Construction, CA....................................
San Jose High Volume Bus Stop Upgrades, Santa Clara              600,000
 County, CA..........................................
Scottsdale Intermodal Center, AZ.....................            500,000
Senior Center Buses, Guadalupe, AZ...................            150,000
Senior Transportation Program, AL....................          2,000,000
Silverton Senior and Disabled Transportation Service,             38,404
 OR..................................................
SMART Alternative Fuel Vehicles, MI..................          1,500,000
South Amboy Intermodal Station, NJ...................            500,000
South Bay Regional Intermodal Transit Centers, CA....            800,000
Southern Maryland Commuter Bus Initiative............          1,250,000
Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority hybrid bus             400,000
 replacement, OH.....................................
Spokane Transit Diesel-Electric Hybrid Bus                     1,266,200
 Acquisition, WA.....................................
St. Petersburg Central Avenue Bus Rapid Transit, FL..            500,000
StarMetro Buses, Tallahassee, FL.....................          1,000,000
State of Arkansas--Bus and bus facilities, AR........          1,300,000
Statewide (Rural and Urban) Bus & Bus Facilities, KS.          2,000,000
Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities for Commuter Choice,            1,948,000
 NM..................................................
Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, IA...................          3,405,800
Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, MO...................          2,000,000
Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, SD...................            487,000
Statewide Bus Replacement, RI........................            487,000
Stone Avenue Train Station, La Grange, IL............            700,000
Suffolk County bus and bus facilities, NY............            600,000
SunLine Transit Agency paratransit buses and commuter            750,000
 coaches, CA.........................................
Tacoma Intermodal Transit Center, WA.................            974,000
TARTA Bus and Bus Facilities, OH.....................          1,000,000
Tennessee Public Transit Administration Rural                    800,000
 Transportation Project..............................
Tennessee Statewide Bus Program, TN..................          6,625,000
The District Capital Cost of Contracting, Montgomery           1,000,000
 County, TX..........................................
The Rapid, Wealthy Operations Center Expansion                 1,948,000
 Project, Grand Rapids, MI...........................
Thompsonville Intermodal Transportation Center, CT...            974,000
Tinley Park 80th Avenue Metra Station Development, IL            700,000
Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky Bus                     1,850,000
 Replacement Project, KY.............................
Transit Capitol Requests, Oklahoma City, OK..........          1,400,000
Transit Facility and Bus Apron Access Construction             1,000,000
 along US 1, Key West, FL............................
Transit Facility for LKLP Communicaty Action Council           1,000,000
 in West Liberty, KY.................................
Transit Maintenance Garage Initiative, IA............            681,800
Transit Vehicle and Related Equipment, MO............          1,000,000
Troy/Birmingham Multi-Modal Transit Center, MI.......          1,300,000
U.S. Space and Rocket Center Transportation Request,           1,600,000
 Huntsville, AL......................................
Union City Intermodal Station, Phases 1C and 2, CA...            500,000
Union Station Intermodal Transit Center, Washington,             500,000
 DC..................................................
Union Station Intermodal, Pottsville, PA.............            400,000
Vacaville Intermodal Station--Phase 2, CA............            500,000
Veterans Home Handicapped-Accessible Bus and                     130,000
 Handicapped-Accessible Van, Juana Diaz, PR..........
VIA Metropolitan Transit BRT improvements, San                   500,000
 Antonio, TX.........................................
VIA Metropolitan Transit Bus Maintenance Facility                300,000
 Improvements, San Antonio, TX.......................
VIA Metropolitan Transit Bus US 281/Loop 1604 Area               750,000
 Park & Ride, San Antonio, TX........................
Virgin Islands, Bus and Bus Facilities, VI...........            200,000
VTA Renewable Energy Conversion Project, San Jose, CA            750,000
Washoe County Bus & Bus Facilities, NV...............            615,250
Waterbury Intermodal Transportation Center, CT.......            500,000
West Seattle RapidRide and Hybrid Bus Program,                   600,000
 Seattle, WA.........................................
Western Kentucky University Shuttle Bus Improvement            1,200,000
 Project, KY.........................................
Whatcom Transportation Authority Fleet Replacement               974,000
 Project, WA.........................................
Wilkes-Barre Intermodal Transportation Center, PA....            600,000
Winter Haven/Polk County Buses, FL...................            200,000
Wisconsin Bus Capital on Behalf of Transit Agencies            3,409,000
 Statewide, WI.......................................
Wonderland Intermodal Improvements, MA...............            750,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees encourage FTA to utilize a portion of the 
remaining discretionary funds for energy efficient bus and bus 
facility projects.
      Alternatives analysis.--The FTA is directed to allocate 
funds to the following alternatives analysis projects:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bottineau Transitway, MN.............................           $250,000
Central Kentucky Mass Transit Alternatives Analysis,             300,000
 KY..................................................
C-Tran High Capacity Transit--Alternatives Analysis,           1,704,500
 WA..................................................
Downtown L.A. Streetcar Environmental Review, CA.....            250,000
Enhanced Transit Service--Route 7 Corridor, VA.......            350,000
Green Line Extension, MA.............................            300,000
Hudson-Bergen MOS-2, Northern NJ.....................            400,000
I-10 West Corridor Light Rail Extension, Phoenix, AZ.          1,000,000
Interstate 20-East Transit Corridor Alternatives/                300,000
 Environmental Analysis, Atlanta, GA.................
Interstate 94 Transit Corridor--St. Paul to Eau                  250,000
 Claire, Alternatives Analysis and Environmental
 Assessment, Ramsey County, MN.......................
Lehigh Valley Bus Rapid Transit Analysis, PA.........            360,000
Naval Station Norfolk/Virginia Beach Light Rail                  979,200
 Study, VA...........................................
New Haven-Hartford-Springfield Rail Line                       3,896,000
 Improvements, CT....................................
Northwest New Jersey--Northwest Pennsylvania                     974,000
 Passenger Rail Project, NJ/PA.......................
Pace J-Route Bus Rapid Transit, IL...................            360,000
Puyallup Bus Rapid Transit Project--Alternatives               1,461,000
 Analysis, WA........................................
Route 8 Corridor Transit Oriented Development &                  300,000
 Alternate Modes Study, CT...........................
SE King County Commuter Rail and Transit Centers                 360,000
 Feasibility Study, WA...............................
South Central Avenue Light Rail Feasibility Study,               400,000
 Phoenix, AZ.........................................
South Davis Street Car, Salt Lake City, UT...........            360,000
The Rapid Streetcar Alternative Analysis Study, MI...            360,000
Transportation study for the Texas Medical Center,             1,000,000
 Houston, TX.........................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                RESEARCH AND UNIVERSITY RESEARCH CENTERS

      The conference agreement provides $65,670,000 from the 
General Fund for FTA's research activities as proposed by the 
House instead of $67,670,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of the 
amounts provided, $4,300,000 is for the National Transit 
Institute, $10,000,000 is for transit cooperative research 
programs and $7,000,000 is for the university centers program.
      Asset management.--The conference agreement includes 
$5,000,000 to develop asset management plans, technical 
assistance, data collection and a pilot program as proposed by 
the Senate. The House did not include similar language. The 
conferees expect the pilot program to include transit agencies 
that vary in size and direct FTA to report findings to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 18 months 
of enactment.
      Of the remaining funds provided for national research 
programs, FTA is directed to allocate funds to the following 
activities:

Community Transportation Association of America Joblinks, 
    nationwide................................................$1,000,000
Metropolitan Area Transportation Operations and Coordination, 
    MD........................................................   200,000
Project TRANSIT, Philadelphia, PA.............................   300,000

                       CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $2,000,000,000 from the 
General Fund for capital investment grants instead of 
$1,827,343,000 as proposed by the House and $2,307,343,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement directs the Office of the 
Inspector General to continue transit oversight activities in 
fiscal year 2010.
      New starts and small starts.--Within the funds provided, 
FTA is directed to allocate funds to the following projects:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Project Name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ann Arbor--Detroit Regional Rail Project, Detroit, MI          3,500,000
Assembly Square Orange Line Station, MA..............          1,000,000
Baltimore Red Line, MD...............................          3,000,000
Bellevue-Redmond BRT, King County, WA................          9,368,193
Berkeley-Oakland-San Leandro Bus Rapid Transit                 1,000,000
 Corridor Improvements Project in Alameda County, CA.
Central Corridor Light Rail Transit Project, MN......          2,000,000
Central Florida Commuter Rail Transit, Orlando, FL...         40,000,000
Central Phoenix/East Valley Light Rail, Phoenix, AZ..         61,249,903
Charlotte Streetcar Project, NC......................            500,000
Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line), IL................          1,500,000
City of Charlotte, Charlotte Area Transit System's            14,700,000
 [CATS] Blue Line Extension--Northeast Corridor
 Project, NC.........................................
Commuter Rail Improvements, Fitchburg, MA............         37,452,000
CTA Red Line North Station, Track, Viaduct and                 7,500,000
 Station Rehabilitation, IL..........................
Draper Light Rail, UT................................         10,000,000
Dulles Corridor Metrorail Project Extension to Wiehle         85,000,000
 Avenue, Washington, DC..............................
Fort Lauderdale--The Downtown, Transit Corridor                  500,000
 Program, Downtown Transit Circulator, FL............
Fort Worth Transportation Authority Southwest-to-              4,000,000
 Northeast Rail Corridor, TX.........................
Galveston-Houston Commuter Rail, TX..................          2,000,000
HART Light Rail Preliminary Engineering, FL..........          1,650,000
Honolulu High Capacity Transit Corridor Project, HI..         30,000,000
Houston North Corridor LRT, Houston, TX..............         75,000,000
Houston Southeast Corridor LRT, Houston, TX..........         75,000,000
Hudson-Bergen MOS-2, Northern NJ.....................             11,039
Improvements to the Rosslyn Metro Station, VA........          1,000,000
Lackawanna Cut-Off Restoration Project, PA/NJ........          1,000,000
Largo Metrorail Extension, Washington, DC............            347,000
Livermore-Amador Route 10 BRT, Livermore, CA.........             79,900
Long Island Rail Road East Side Access, New York, NY.        202,522,853
Los Angeles-Wilshire Blvd Bus-Only Lane, Los Angeles,         13,558,474
 CA..................................................
Mason Corridor BRT, Fort Collins, CO.................         49,055,155
Metra Commuter Rail, IL..............................          8,000,000
    Metra Commuter Rail Union Pacific Northwest Line,  .................
     IL..............................................
    Metra STAR Line, IL..............................  .................
    Metra UP-West Line, IL...........................  .................
    Metra-Southeast Service, Chicago, IL.............  .................
Metro Express-Airport Way Corridor BRT Project, San            2,808,825
 Joaquin, CA.........................................
Metro Gold Line Eastside Extension, Los Angeles, CA..          9,582,551
Metro Rapid Bus System Gap Closure, Los Angeles, CA..             23,326
MetroRapid BRT, Austin, TX...........................         13,370,204
Miami-Dade County Metrorail Orange Line Expansion, FL          4,000,000
Modern Streetcar/Light Rail Transit System, Tucson,            4,000,000
 AZ..................................................
Monterey Bay Rapid Transit, Monterey, CA.............          2,773,038
Mountain Links BRT, Flagstaff, AZ....................            681,942
NJ Access to the Region's Core (ARC/THE Tunnel),             200,000,000
 Northern NJ.........................................
North Shore LRT Connector, Pittsburgh, PA............              6,153
Northstar Corridor Rail, Minneapolis-Big Lake, MN....            711,661
Northstar Phase II--Extension of Northstar Commuter            3,000,000
 Rail to the St. Cloud Area, MN......................
Northwest/Southeast LRT MOS, Dallas, TX..............         84,124,745
Pacific Highway South BRT, King County, WA...........              6,815
Perris Valley Line, CA...............................          5,000,000
Purple Line, MD......................................          3,000,000
Ravenswood Line Extension, Chicago, IL...............            304,744
Roaring Fork Valley, BRT Project, Roaring Fork, CO...            810,000
Route 1 Bus Rapid Transit, Potomac Yard High Capacity          1,000,000
 Transit, VA.........................................
RTD East Corridor Construction, CO...................          2,500,000
RTD Gold Corridor, CO................................          2,000,000
RTD West Corridor LRT, Denver, CO....................         90,000,000
Salt Lake City-Mid Jordan LRT, Salt Lake City, UT....         98,000,000
San Bernardino, E Street Corridor sbX BRT, San                32,370,000
 Bernardino, CA......................................
San Diego-Mid-City Rapid, San Diego, CA..............          2,359,850
Second Avenue Subway Phase I, New York, NY...........        197,182,000
Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit [SMART], CA...........          2,500,000
Sound Transit--Central Link Initial Segment, Seattle,          3,144,294
 WA..................................................
Sound Transit--University Link LRT Extension,                110,000,000
 Seattle, WA.........................................
South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall LRT, Portland, OR.         74,229,000
South Sacramento Corridor Phase II, Sacramento, CA...         38,000,000
South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Reinvestment Plan,           2,000,000
 Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District,
 IN..................................................
Southeast Corridor LRT, Denver, CO...................             10,312
Stamford Urban Transitway, CT........................          2,000,000
Third Street Light Rail-Central Subway Project, CA...          6,000,000
Troost Corridor BRT, Kansas City, MO.................              6,022
Virginia Railway Express Rolling Stock, VA...........          3,000,000
Weber County-Salt Lake City Commuter Rail, Salt Lake          80,000,000
 City, UT............................................
Wilmington to Newark Commuter Rail Improvement                 3,000,000
 Program, DE.........................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       GRANTS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTIONS

      The conference agreement provides $75,000,000 for energy 
efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction grants instead of 
$100,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
include funding for this program.

      GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY

      The conference agreement provides $150,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and Senate to carry out section 601 of 
division B of Public Law 110-432 to remain available until 
expended.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

      Section 160 exempts previously made transit obligations 
from limitations on obligations as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 161 allows funds provided in this Act for (1) 
projects under ``Capital Investment Grants'' and (2) bus and 
bus facilities under ``Formula and Bus Grants'' that remain 
unobligated by September 30, 2012 to be available for projects 
eligible to use the funds for the purposes for which they were 
originally provided, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 162 allows for the transfer of appropriations 
made prior to October 1, 2009 from older accounts to be merged 
into new accounts with similar current activities as proposed 
by the House and Senate.
      Section 163 allows unobligated funds in prior year 
appropriations for new fixed guideway systems under ``FTA--
capital investment grants'' to be used in the current fiscal 
year to satisfy expenses for activities eligible in the year 
the funds were appropriated as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 164 allows FTA to provide grants for 90 percent 
of the net capital cost of a factory-installed or retrofitted 
hybrid electric bus system and provides that the Secretary 
shall have the discretion to determine the costs attributable 
to the system and related-equipment as proposed by the House.
      Section 165 requires unobligated funds or recoveries 
under 49 U.S.C. 5309 that are available for reallocation shall 
be directed to projects eligible to use the funds for which 
they were originally intended as proposed by the House.
      Section 166 modifies a provision proposed by the House 
that allows funds in previous Appropriations Acts for projects 
in Florida, New Jersey and Arizona to be used for other transit 
purposes.
      Section 167 provides funds for Alaska or Hawaii ferry 
boats or ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
5309(m)(2)(B) may be used to construct new vessels and 
facilities, or to improve existing vessels and facilities as 
proposed by the Senate. No more than $4,000,000 of the funds 
may be used by the City and County of Honolulu to operate a 
passenger ferry boat and other technologies.
      Section 168 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
which requires FTA to consider the portion of the Woodward 
Avenue Corridor that is advanced with 100 percent non-Federal 
funds during the New Starts rating process. The conferees 
understand that the first phase of the Woodward Avenue Corridor 
project will meet all of the existing federal requirements 
including environmental reviews, prevailing wage, disadvantage 
business enterprise and Buy American.
      Section 169 requires the Secretary provide 
recommendations, including legislative proposals, on how to 
strengthen DOT's role in regulating the safety of transit 
agencies operating heavy rail on fixed guideway as proposed by 
the Senate. The recommendations shall include actions DOT will 
take and what legislative authority will be needed to address 
NTSB safety recommendations. DOT is directed to provide the 
report with recommendations and an implementation plan to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Senate 
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee within 45 days of 
enactment.
      Section 170 prohibits reallocation of SAFETEA-LU funding 
for three transit projects in Connecticut as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Section 171 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
which extends FTA's contingent commitment authority for Fiscal 
Year 2010.
      Section 172 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
regarding the enforcement of the charter bus rule for an area 
in Washington State. The conference agreement directs the 
Office of Inspector General to study the effect of charter tour 
regulations on quality and price of transit services.
      Section 173 permanently allows the local share 
calculations for New Start projects that are part of interstate 
multi-modal projects on interstate highway corridors to include 
all local funds in the project's financial plan as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a Senate 
provision prohibiting the issuance of a final rule under 
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

                       Operations and Maintenance

                    (Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund)

      The conference agreement includes $32,324,000 for the 
operations, maintenance, and capital asset renewal of the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC) as proposed by 
the House and the Senate.

                        Maritime Administration

                       MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM

      The conference agreement includes $174,000,000 for the 
maritime security program, as proposed by the House and Senate.

                        OPERATIONS AND TRAINING

      The conference agreement includes $149,750,000 for the 
Maritime Administration's operations and training account, 
instead of $140,900,000 as proposed by the House and 
$154,900,000 as proposed by the Senate. The bill allocates the 
funds for operations and training as follows:

        Activity                                        Conference level

                  U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA)

Operations..............................................     $59,057,000
Capital improvements....................................      15,000,000
    Subtotal, USMMA.....................................      74,057,000

                        State Maritime Academies

Student incentive payments..............................       2,150,000
Direct schoolship payments..............................       2,550,000
Schoolship maintenance and repair.......................      11,240,000
    Subtotal, State Maritime Academies..................      15,940,000

                            MARAD Operations

Salaries and Benefits...................................      28,602,000
Non-Discretionary Operations............................       9,731,000
Information Technology..................................       8,155,000
Discretionary Operations and Travel.....................       1,777,000
Discretionary Program Expenses..........................      11,488,000
    Subtotal, Operations................................      59,753,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
      Total, Operations and Training....................     149,750,000

    `  United States Merchant Marine Academy.--The conference 
agreement includes language stipulating that the $74,057,000 
provided for the capital improvements, operations, and 
maintenance of the United States Merchant Marine Academy will 
be made available to the Academy only after the Secretary 
completes and provides to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a plan detailing how such funding will be 
expended. This plan should include detailed information on the 
long-term capital plan for the Academy as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement includes modified language 
proposed by the Senate providing that only the Secretary or the 
Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Budget and Programs 
may make allotments for the Academy.
      Reporting requirements.--The Maritime Administration is 
instructed to submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations within three months of enactment of this Act a 
report identifying the actions taken to implement each GAO 
recommendation as proposed by the House. MARAD is also 
instructed to submit a report detailing the cost, use, and 
authorization for Midshipmen fees as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes $11,488,000 for 
Discretionary Program Expenses. Within the funds provided, 
$3,875,000 is for MARAD's environment and compliance activities 
as proposed by the House. In addition, $7,000,000 is for the 
Secure and Efficient Ports Initiative, as proposed by the 
Senate. None of the funds provided for the port initiative may 
be used for the creation of a new legacy system.
      Within the funds provided, the conference agreement 
includes sufficient amounts to resolve the unused leave dispute 
as authorized by Section 502 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.

                             SHIP DISPOSAL

      The conference agreement includes $15,000,000 for the 
disposal of obsolete vessels of the National Defense Reserve 
Fleet as proposed by the House and Senate.

                     ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS

      The conference agreement includes $15,000,000 for 
assistance to small shipyards. MARAD should include geographic 
diversity of grant recipients within the criteria for 
assistance to small shipyard grants.

          MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI) PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $9,000,000 for the 
maritime guaranteed loan program (title XI). Within the funds 
provided, $4,000,000 is for administrative expenses and 
$5,000,000 is for new loan guarantees.

           ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

      Section 175 retains a provision provided by the House and 
the Senate that authorizes MARAD to furnish utilities and 
services and make necessary repairs in connection with any 
lease, contract, or occupancy involving Government property 
under control of MARAD, and allow payments received to be 
credited to the Treasury.
      Section 176 provides a mechanism to collect and utilize 
fees collected from midshipmen at the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy, as proposed by the House and the Senate. The 
language also accounts for fees previously collected and held 
by the Maritime Administration and allows for surplus fees from 
prior years to be refunded to midshipmen.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

                         (PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $21,132,000 for the 
necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), instead of $19,968,000 
as proposed by the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $1,164,000 above the 
budget request for operational expenses relating to 
improvements to the special permits and approvals program. 
Included in this increase, the conferees provide four new 
positions and the associated half-year funding for information 
technology services and data analysis relating to special 
permits and $800,000 to begin the associated modernization 
efforts of the hazardous materials information system.
      Of the amount provided, $639,000 is to be derived from 
the Pipeline Safety Fund, as proposed by the House and the 
Senate. The conference agreement also requires that of the 
available funds $1,000,000 shall be transferred to Pipeline 
Safety to fund pipeline safety information grants to 
communities, as proposed by the House and the Senate.

                       HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY

      The conference agreement provides $37,994,000 to continue 
the agency's hazardous materials safety functions, instead of 
$36,500,000 as proposed by the House and $35,500,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Of this amount $1,699,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2012, as proposed by the Senate.
      Special permits and approval program.--Included within 
the hazardous materials program appropriation, the conferees 
provide $2,494,000 above the budget request to strengthen 
PHMSA's oversight of the special permits program. This 
additional funding is provided to ensure that the special 
permits issued provide a level of safety equivalent to that 
provided under the hazardous materials regulations (HMR) and 
that permit holders comply with the terms of the special 
permits and all other applicable HMR requirements. Of this 
amount, $1,594,000 is provided to fund the half-year costs 
associated with 16 new positions, to include permit review and 
approval staff, enforcement inspectors, and data analysis 
staff. In addition, of this amount, the conferees provide 
$900,000 for contractor support services for review of existing 
special permits and approval of new special permit requests 
using revised criteria, policies, and procedures.

                            PIPELINE SAFETY

                         (PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)

                    (OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND)

      The conference agreement provides a total of $105,239,000 
for the office of pipeline safety, as proposed by the House and 
the Senate. Of this amount, $18,905,000 shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and shall be available until 
September 30, 2012. The remaining $86,334,000 shall be derived 
from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of which $47,332,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2012. The conferees also 
direct that no less than $1,048,000 of the funds provided shall 
be used for the state one-call grant program.

                     EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS

                     (EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUND)

      The conference agreement provides a total of $28,506,000 
for emergency preparedness grants, as proposed by the House and 
the Senate.

           Research and Innovative Technology Administration

                        RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $13,007,000 to continue 
research and development activities. Of the funds provided, 
$6,036,000 shall be available for the research and development 
program until September 30, 2012.

        Activity                                        Conference level
Salaries and Administrative Expense...........................$6,971,000
Alternative Fuels Safety Research and Development.............   500,000
RD&T Coordination.............................................   536,000
Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System [NDGPS]..... 4,600,000
Positioning, Navigation, and Timing...........................   400,000

      Alternative Fuels Safety Research and Development.--RITA 
is updating this program to encompass alternative fuels in 
addition to hydrogen.

                  BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS

                      (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)

      Under the appropriation of the Federal Highway 
Administration, the conference agreement provides $28,000,000 
for the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS). The agency 
shall limit BTS staff to 122 FTE in fiscal year 2010.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $75,114,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG). The additional funding above 
the budget request will provide an additional 2 FTEs, for a 
total of 418 FTEs.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $29,066,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the surface transportation board, 
instead of $29,800,000 as proposed by the House and $28,332,000 
as proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement permits the 
collection of up to $1,250,000 in user fees to be credited to 
this appropriation as proposed by the House and Senate. The 
conference agreement provides that the general fund 
appropriation be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the 
actual amount collected in user fees to result in a final 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at no more than 
$27,816,000.
      Within the funds provided the conferees provide $746,000 
be used to implement the Surface Transportation Board's (STB) 
expanded jurisdiction under Public Law 110-432 as proposed by 
the House, instead of $678,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conferees provide $350,000 for STB to scope the Uniform 
Railroad Costing System study as proposed by the Senate.
      Liability review.--The conferees modify the direction in 
the House report and direct the Surface Transportation Board 
(STB) to review the issues surrounding agreements between 
entities responsible for passenger and freight rail, to the 
extent that those agreements fall within the STB's 
jurisdiction. This review should examine historic precedent, 
current practices and existing agreements. The conferees direct 
the STB to produce a letter report on the results of its review 
for the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the 
House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the 
Senate Committees on Banking; Commerce, Science and 
Transportation; and Environment and Public Works within 180 
days of the date of enactment of this Act.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

      Section 180 allows the Department of Transportation to 
use funds for aircraft, motor vehicles, liability insurance, 
uniforms, or allowances, as authorized by law as proposed by 
the House and Senate.
      Section 181 limits appropriations for services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109 to the rate for an Executive Level IV as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 182 prohibits funds from being used for salaries 
and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in DOT. The provision also requires that none of the 
personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on 
temporary detail outside DOT as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 183 prohibits funds from being used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 184 prohibits recipients of funds made available 
in this Act from releasing certain personal information and 
photographs from a driver's license or motor vehicle record, 
without express consent of the person to whom such information 
pertains; and prohibits the withholding of funds provided in 
this Act for any grantee if a State is in noncompliance with 
this provision as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 185 permits funds received by specified DOT 
agencies from States or other private or public sources for 
expenses incurred for training to be credited to certain 
specified agency accounts as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 186 requires funding of certain programs, 
projects and activities identified in the accompanying report 
within the accounts of the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Railroad Administration, and the Federal Transit 
Administration as proposed by the Senate. The House bill 
included a similar provision.
      Section 187 authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to 
allow issuers of any preferred stock sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the 
Department of an amount determined by the Secretary as proposed 
by the House and Senate.
      Section 188 prohibits funds from being used to make a 
grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the House 
and the Senate Committees on Appropriations no less than three 
days in advance of any discretionary grant award, letter of 
intent, or full funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or 
more, and directs the Secretary give concurrent notification 
for any ``quick release'' of funds from the Federal Highway 
Administration's emergency relief program as proposed by the 
Senate. The House bill included a similar provision.
      Section 189 allows funds received from rebates, refunds, 
and similar sources to be credited to appropriations of the DOT 
as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 190 allows amounts from improper payments to a 
third party contractor that are lawfully recovered by the DOT 
to be available to cover expenses incurred in the recovery of 
such payments as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 191 mandates that reprogramming actions are to be 
approved or denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 192 caps the amount of fees the Surface 
Transportation Board can charge and collect for rate complaints 
filed at the amount authorized for court civil suit filing fees 
as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 193 allows the Department of Transportation to 
make use of the Working Capital Fund in providing transit 
benefits to Federal employees as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 194 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
to establish a 1-year pilot program related to truck weight in 
the States of Maine and Vermont. The conferees direct the 
Secretary to report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations no later than 6 months after the start of the 
pilot program on the impact to date of the pilot program on 
bridge safety and weight impacts. The House did not include a 
similar provision.
      Section 195 requires the Department of Transportation to 
conduct a study related to the Missouri River as proposed by 
the Senate.
      Section 196 clarifies funding for previously funded 
projects in Nevada as proposed by the Senate.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

      The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is 
directed to follow the instructions included in H. Rept. 111-
218 for this account related to reprogramming of funds and 
departmental reorganizations.

                          Executive Direction

      The conference agreement provides $26,855,000 for 
Executive Direction, instead of $25,969,000, as proposed by the 
House and Senate. Funds are provided as follows:

Immediate Office of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary........$4,619,000
Office of Hearings and Appeals................................ 1,703,000
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization........   778,000
Immediate Office of the Chief Financial Officer...............   727,000
Immediate Office of the General Counsel....................... 1,474,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional and 
    Intergovernmental Relations............................... 2,912,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.......... 3,996,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration.......... 1,218,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian 
    Affairs................................................... 2,125,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community and Planning 
    Development............................................... 1,781,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing, Federal Housing 
    Commissioner.............................................. 3,497,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and 
    Research.................................................. 1,097,000
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal 
    Opportunity...............................................   928,000

      The conference agreement directs that the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental 
Relations shall have no more than 20 FTEs.

               Administration, Operations and Management

      The conference agreement provides $537,011,000 for the 
administrative functions of the Department, instead of 
$537,897,000, as proposed by the House and Senate. Funds are 
provided as follows:

Office of Administration Personnel Compensation and 
    Benefits............................................     $76,958,000
Office of Departmental Operations and Coordination 
    Personnel Compensation and Benefits.................       9,623,000
Office of Field Policy and Management Personnel 
    Compensation and Benefits...........................      51,275,000
Office of the Chief Procurement Officer Personnel 
    Compensation and Benefits...........................      14,649,000
Office of the Chief Financial Officer Personnel 
    Compensation and Benefits...........................      35,197,000
Office of the General Counsel Personnel Compensation and 
    Benefits............................................      89,062,000
Office of the Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity 
    Personnel Compensation and Benefits.................       3,296,000
Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives 
    Personnel Compensation and Benefits.................       1,393,000
Office of Sustainability Personnel Compensation and 
    Benefits............................................       2,400,000
Office of Strategic Planning and Management Personnel 
    Compensation and Benefits...........................       3,288,000
Non-personnel expenses..................................     249,870,000

      The conference agreement directs HUD to maintain the 
responsibilities of the appropriations attorneys under the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer.

                  Personnel Compensation and Benefits

                       PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING

      The conference agreement provides $197,074,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

                   COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $98,989,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

                                HOUSING

      The conference agreement provides $374,887,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

         OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION

      The conference agreement provides $11,095,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate, to be derived from the GNMA 
guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan 
receipt account.

                    POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH

      The conference agreement provides $21,138,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

                   FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

      The conference agreement provides $71,800,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

            OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL

      The conference agreement provides $7,151,000 for the 
personnel compensation and benefits for this account, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $18,184,200,000 for all 
tenant-based Section 8 activities under the Tenant-Based Rental 
Assistance Account. Language is included designating funds 
provided as follows:

        Activity                                        Conference level
Voucher Renewals........................................ $16,339,200,000
Tenant Protection Vouchers..............................     120,000,000
Administrative Fees.....................................   1,575,000,000
HUD-VASH Incremental Vouchers...........................      75,000,000
Family Unification Incremental Vouchers.................      15,000,000
Family Self-Sufficiency Coordinators....................      60,000,000

      The conferees clarify the importance of addressing 
portability needs when allocating the money set-aside for 
additional voucher funding needs. In addition, language has 
been included to clarify that the Secretary should take into 
account need when allocating this additional funding.
      The conferees reiterate the importance of HUD using the 
VMS data to determine funding allocations for PHAs. HUD must 
work with PHAs to ensure that the data is being entered 
correctly and accurately. The conference agreement includes 
language that allows the Secretary to transfer up to 
$100,000,000 to the Transformation Initiative and expects the 
Secretary to use any funding transferred from this account 
solely to improve its information technology systems, 
especially the Voucher Management System.
      The Department is directed to continue to submit all 
previously required reports, including quarterly reports on 
trends, Form HUD-0952681, and the semi-annual report on the 
effectiveness of the budget-based approach to vouchers.

                        HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND

      The conference agreement does not include a rescission 
from this account, as proposed by the House and Senate. 
Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, may 
be used for renewal of or amendments to section 8 project-based 
contracts and for performance-based contract administrators. 
The conference agreement includes language that cancels and 
reappropriates funding from years 1975 through 1987 for the 
purpose of funding project-based rental assistance contracts.

                      PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND

      The conference agreement provides $2,500,000,000 for the 
Public Housing Capital Fund, as proposed by the House and the 
Senate. The conference agreement also provides $50,000,000 for 
supportive services, service coordinators and congregate 
services as proposed by the House instead of $40,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees appreciate HUD's efforts to redirect and 
successfully complete the Capital Needs Assessment. The 
Department is encouraged to continue to work with the 
Committees to gather information about successful leveraging 
strategies and sustainability efforts through case studies or 
other appropriate methods of research.
      The conference agreement provides that up to $40,000,000 
may be competitively awarded for facilities for early childhood 
education or for other services for public housing residents, 
as proposed by the Senate. Language is included that requires 
the PHAs awarded grants must use other resources for the 
operations of these facilities.

                     PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $4,775,000,000 for the 
Public Housing Operating Fund, as opposed to $4,800,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $4,750,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.

     REVITALIZATION OF SEVERELY DISTRESSED PUBLIC HOUSING (HOPE VI)

      The conference agreement provides $200,000,000 for the 
Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing program 
(HOPE VI), compared to $250,000,000 as proposed by the House. 
The Senate instead proposed $250,000,000 for the Choice 
Neighborhoods Initiative.
      Of the amount provided, up to $10,000,000 is for 
technical assistance.
      The funding also includes up to $65,000,000 for a 
demonstration of the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative similar to 
that proposed by the Senate. The goal of the demonstration is 
to transform neighborhoods of poverty into functioning, 
sustainable mixed income neighborhoods. Important in this 
effort is the inclusion of appropriate services and access to 
transportation, jobs and public schools. For this 
demonstration, grants may be used for both public housing and 
HUD-assisted properties. In addition, grantees may include 
local governments, public housing authorities, non-profit 
organizations and for profit organizations that apply in 
partnership with a public entity.
      The Department is directed to issue the fiscal year 2010 
HOPE VI NOFA within 60 days of enactment of this Act.
      The Department is directed to provide the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations with quarterly updates on 
the status of projects and the expenditure of funds by 
grantees.

                  NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANTS

      The conference agreement provides $700,000,000 for the 
Native American Housing Block Grants, as opposed to 
$750,000,000 as proposed by the House and $670,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                  NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT

      The conference agreement provides $13,000,000 for the 
Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant, as proposed by the Senate, 
of which $300,000 shall be for training and technical 
assistance, including up to $100,000 for related travel. The 
House proposed $12,000,000 for this account.

           INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $7,000,000, as proposed 
by the House and Senate, to subsidize a loan limitation of up 
to $919,000,000.

      NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $1,044,000 for 
guaranteed loans for Native Hawaiian housing to subsidize a 
total guaranteed loan principal of up to $41,504,255, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.

                   Community Planning and Development

          HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH AIDS (HOPWA)

      The conference agreement provides $335,000,000 for 
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program, as 
opposed to $350,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$320,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND

      The conference agreement provides $4,450,000,000 for the 
Community Development Fund, as opposed to $4,598,607,000 as 
proposed by the House. The conference agreement provides the 
following:

Formula distribution of funds...........................  $3,990,068,480
Indian Economic Block Grants............................      65,000,000
Economic Development Initiative Grants..................     172,843,570
Neighborhood Initiatives Program........................      22,087,950
Sustainable Communities Initiative......................     150,000,000
Rural Innovation Fund...................................      25,000,000
University Community Fund-Section 107 Grants............      25,000,000

      The conference agreement provides funding for section 107 
grants as proposed by the Senate. Consistent with prior years, 
these grants will be awarded competitively to academic 
institutions as follows:

Native Alaskan and Hawaiian Serving Institutions..............$3,265,000
Tribal colleges and Universities.............................. 5,435,000
HBCUs......................................................... 9,780,000
Hispanic Serving Institutions................................. 6,520,000

      The conference agreement includes $150,000,000 for the 
Sustainable Communities initiative, as proposed by the House 
and Senate. Of the $100,000,000 provided for Regional 
Integrated Planning Grants, not less than $25,000,000 shall be 
awarded to metropolitan areas with populations of less than 
500,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conferees direct that 
the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of 
Transportation in evaluating grant proposals.
      The conference agreement includes $25,000,000 for the 
rural innovation fund to be awarded to Indian tribes and state, 
local and non-profit organizations as proposed by the Senate. 
The conferees also direct that at least $5,000,000 shall be 
used to promote economic development and entrepreneurship for 
federally recognized tribes, similar to the Senate proposal.
      The Department is directed to implement the Economic 
Development Initiatives program as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Grantee                    Purpose              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
180 Turning Lives Around Inc....  180 Turning Lives             $200,000
                                   Around space
                                   expansion.
Abused Women's Aid in Crisis,     For infrastructure             200,000
 Anchorage, AK.                    improvements at a
                                   center to serve
                                   victims of
                                   domestic violence.
Ada Public Works Authority, OK..  Water storage tower            600,000
                                   construction.
Alabama PALS....................  Alabama PALS,                  250,000
                                   Coastal Cleanup
                                   equipment.
Albany, GA......................  For the                        450,000
                                   transformation of
                                   real estate
                                   property and
                                   infrastructure
                                   into a Certified
                                   Industrial Park.
Alianza Dominicana, Inc., New     Construction of the            250,000
 York, NY.                         Triangle Building,
                                   a mixed-use
                                   facility.
Altadena Library District,        Renovation,                    400,000
 Altadena, CA.                     expansion and ADA
                                   compliance at a
                                   public library.
American Legion Veterans          Construction of                200,000
 Housing, Inc., Jewitt City, CT.   supportive housing
                                   for veterans.
American Red Cross of Northeast   For an expansion of            200,000
 Indiana, IN.                      the existing
                                   facility.
Amos House, Providence, RI......  For construction of            730,500
                                   a training and
                                   support center to
                                   serve low-income
                                   individuals.
Anchorage Community Land Trust,   For rehabilitation             389,600
 Anchorage, AK.                    and renewal of key
                                   blighted property
                                   along Mountain
                                   View Drive.
Androscoggin Valley Council of    For the restoration            600,000
 Governments, ME.                  of the historic
                                   Camden Yarns Mill
                                   building in
                                   downtown Lewiston
                                   would rehabilitate
                                   a blighted mill on
                                   the river.
Angelina County, TX.............  Angelina County                500,000
                                   Cassell-Boykin
                                   County Park
                                   Project facility
                                   renovation.
Annis Water Resource Institute..  Annis Water                    500,000
                                   Resource Institute
                                   field station
                                   renovation.
Appalachia Service Project,       For a home repair              730,500
 Brenton, WV.                      program for low-
                                   income families in
                                   Southern West
                                   Virginia.
Appalachia Service Project,       To serve families              460,000
 Chavies, KY.                      below the federal
                                   poverty level
                                   through a variety
                                   of means, such as
                                   financial
                                   assistance or
                                   equipping homes
                                   with running water.
Appleton Housing Authority,       For construction               409,080
 Appleton, WI.                     and preservation
                                   of low-income
                                   elderly housing.
Architectural Heritage            For construction of            194,800
 foundation, Lowell, MA.           a mixed-use urban
                                   development
                                   including space
                                   for affordable
                                   housing.
Ardmore Development Authority,    For infrastructure             600,000
 Ardmore, OK.                      improvements.
Argentine Neighborhood Dev.       For property                 1,000,000
 Assoc., Kansas City, KS.          acquisition,
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements, and
                                   housing
                                   construction.
Arkansas Food Bank Network,       For establishment              194,800
 Little Rock, AR.                  of a new facility.
Augusta Housing and Community     Construction and               200,000
 Development Department,           rehabilitation of
 Augusta, GA.                      the Lucy Craft
                                   Laney/Silas X.
                                   Floyd Wellness
                                   Center.
Automation Alley, Troy, MI......  Planning, design,              394,800
                                   and construction
                                   of the Automation
                                   Alley
                                   International
                                   Business Center
                                   for business
                                   incubation.
Bayard Rustin Access Center.....  Acquisition,                   100,000
                                   planning,
                                   renovation, and
                                   design of a
                                   transitional
                                   living program for
                                   youth.
Bedford County Development        Bedford County                 250,000
 Association.                      business park
                                   development.
Berkshire Community College,      Construction of a              750,000
 Pittsfield, MA.                   renewable energy
                                   training center.
Berrien County Development        North Berrien                  300,000
 Authority.                        Industrial Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Billings Food Bank..............  Billings Food Bank             450,000
                                   Montana Harvest
                                   Kitchens Project
                                   building expansion.
Blair County, PA................  For acquisition,               243,500
                                   demolition and
                                   site preparation
                                   within Blair
                                   County's blighted
                                   urban core areas,
                                   including downtown
                                   Altoona.
The Nehemiah Project............  Building                       100,000
                                   acquisition,
                                   renovation, and
                                   redevelopment of
                                   Lower Fairview.
Bolivar County, MS..............  For the renovation             350,000
                                   and repair of a
                                   historic
                                   courthouse.
Bordentown Township, NJ.........  The Bordentown                 250,000
                                   Township Light
                                   Rail Transit
                                   Center area
                                   renovation and
                                   remediation.
Borough of Phoenixville, PA.....  Phoenixville                   250,000
                                   downtown
                                   streetscape
                                   project.
Borough of Souderton, PA........  Souderton Train                500,000
                                   Station and
                                   Freight Buildings
                                   Restoration.
Boyle County Fiscal Court,        For upgrades to                500,000
 Danville, KY.                     current building
                                   and infrastructure
                                   in Boyle County.
Boys & Girls Club of Binghamton,  Construction and               250,000
 NY.                               equipment at a new
                                   facility to serve
                                   at-risk youth.
Boys & Girls Club of East County  Boys & Girls Club              250,000
 Foundation, Inc..                 of East County
                                   building
                                   renovation.
Boys & Girls Club of Greater      For renovation and             292,200
 Westfield, Westfield, MA.         expansion of a
                                   youth facility.
Boys & Girls Clubs of Hartford,   Renovation and                 600,000
 Inc., Hartford, CT.               expansion of the
                                   Boys and Girls
                                   Club of Greater
                                   Hartford.
Boys and Girls Clubs of Bellevue  Bellevue Community             150,000
                                   Center renovations.
Boys and Girls Clubs of           For expansion of               974,000
 Southwest Washington, WA.         the existing youth
                                   facility.
Boys and Girls Clubs of the       Renovation of Boys             100,000
 Middle Georgia Region, Eastman,   and Girls club
 GA.                               facility.
Boys Town, NE...................  Boys Town building           1,250,000
                                   construction.
Braddock Redux, Braddock, PA....  Renovation and                 100,000
                                   construction at
                                   the Braddock
                                   Community Center.
Breed Street Shul Project, Inc.,  Rehabilitation of              250,000
 Los Angeles, CA.                  the Breed Street
                                   Shul, an historic
                                   landmark.
Bristol Bay Borough, AK.........  For infrastructure           1,000,000
                                   expansion at the
                                   Port of Bristol
                                   Bay.
Bronx River Alliance, Bronx, NY.  Construction,                  350,000
                                   buildout, and
                                   installation of
                                   roof photovoltaic
                                   array at the Bronx
                                   River House.
Brooklyn Botanical Garden,        Construction and               400,000
 Brooklyn, NY.                     renovation for
                                   safety
                                   improvements.
Brooklyn Children's Museum,       Construction and               250,000
 Brooklyn, NY.                     renovation of the
                                   Community Cultural
                                   and Educational
                                   Center.
Brooklyn Economic Development     Revitalization of              450,000
 Corporation, Brooklyn, NY.        the Moore Street
                                   Retail Market.
Brooklyn Heights Association,     Infrastructure                 450,000
 Brooklyn, NY.                     improvements,
                                   including lighting.
Brown County Public Library,      Renovations and                300,000
 Green Bay, WI.                    updates to the
                                   Brown County
                                   Central Library.
Bucks County Housing Group,       Renovations at a               200,000
 Wrightstown, PA.                  homeless shelter
                                   and affordable
                                   housing rental
                                   units.
Buena Vista Charter Township, MI  For the                        389,600
                                   redevelopment of
                                   blighted property.
Buffalo Bayou Partnership,        Acquisition of land            200,000
 Houston, TX.                      along Buffalo
                                   Bayou's East
                                   Sector.
Calexico Neighborhood House,      Planning, design,              200,000
 Calexico, CA.                     and construction
                                   of five
                                   transitional units
                                   for homeless women
                                   and children.
CEDARS Youth Services, Inc......  CEDARS Children's              200,000
                                   Crisis Center
                                   building
                                   construction.
Central City Community            Veterans Commons               500,000
 Development Corporation.          building
                                   renovation and
                                   construction.
Central Connecticut Coast YMCA,   Construction of a              550,000
 Inc., New Haven, CT.              community
                                   recreational
                                   facility.
Central Islip Civic Council,      Revitalization and             200,000
 Central Islip, NY.                redevelopment of
                                   foreclosed
                                   properties for
                                   affordable housing.
Chabad of the Valley, Tarzana,    Renovation of                  250,000
 CA.                               facilities at the
                                   Emergency Food and
                                   Social Services
                                   Center.
Charles County, MD..............  For installation of            292,200
                                   plumbing in low-
                                   income housing.
Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc.,      Construction at the            500,000
 Phoenix, AZ.                      Maryvale Workforce
                                   Development and
                                   Health Services
                                   Campus.
Chippewa-Luce-Mackinac Community  For construction of            389,600
 Action Human Resources            a new service
 Authority, Luce County, MI.       center to house
                                   all the agency's
                                   programs which
                                   benefit low income
                                   county residents.
City and County of San            Redevelopment of               750,000
 Francisco, CA.                    the Sunnydale-
                                   Velasco public
                                   housing site into
                                   a mixed-income
                                   community.
City of Abilene, TX.............  Life Sciences                  300,000
                                   Accelerator
                                   facilities and
                                   equipment.
City of Alexandria, LA..........  Alexandria                     500,000
                                   Riverfront
                                   redevelopment.
City of Alpine, TX..............  Construction of the            300,000
                                   Alpine Public
                                   Library.
City of Anderson, IN............  For technology and             200,000
                                   building
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements,
                                   tenant build-out
                                   and enhancements,
                                   and laboratory
                                   development for
                                   the incubator
                                   campus of
                                   buildings.
City of Ashland, AL.............  Ashland Industrial             250,000
                                   Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
City of Atmore, AL..............  Elevated water tank            350,000
                                   construction.
City of Aurora, IL..............  Electrical                     300,000
                                   substation
                                   relocation,
                                   brownfield
                                   remediation, and
                                   economic
                                   revitalization.
City of Bastrop, TX.............  Renovation and                 200,000
                                   expansion of a
                                   visitor center.
City of Billings, MT............  For the purchase of            974,000
                                   generators to
                                   provide emergency
                                   power to critical
                                   water facilities.
City of Billings, MT............  Business Consortium            323,000
                                   Project for the
                                   Homeless building
                                   purchase and
                                   renovation.
City of Bozeman, MT.............  For reconstruction             974,000
                                   following an
                                   explosion in a
                                   downtown historic
                                   district.
City of Bradfordsville, KY......  Bradfordsville                 250,000
                                   senior center/
                                   community center
                                   building
                                   renovation.
City of Brockton, MA............  Reconstruction and             600,000
                                   renovation at
                                   public parks.
City of Brownstown, IN..........  Construction of ADA-           250,000
                                   compliant
                                   sidewalks and
                                   streetscaping.
City of Chesapeake, VA..........  Great Bridge                   250,000
                                   Battlefield and
                                   Waterways Park and
                                   Visitors Center
                                   building
                                   construction.
City of Cincinnati, OH..........  For redevelopment              800,000
                                   of Brownfield
                                   property into a
                                   new light
                                   industrial and
                                   service center
                                   business park.
City of Citrus Heights, CA......  ADA infrastructure             450,000
                                   improvements.
City of Council Bluffs, IA......  For development of             340,900
                                   low and moderate
                                   income housing.
City of Covington, KY...........  Stewart Iron Works             250,000
                                   building
                                   renovation.
City of Danville, IL............  For acquisition,               340,900
                                   demolition and
                                   redevelopment of
                                   dilapidated and
                                   abandoned
                                   structures.
City of DeLand, FL..............  Spring Hill Boys               250,000
                                   and Girls
                                   Community Center
                                   building.
City of Dells Rapids, SD........  For restoration,               487,000
                                   renovation and
                                   modernization of
                                   an historic public
                                   library.
City of Demopolis, AL...........  Infrastructure                 400,000
                                   improvements at
                                   the Demopolis
                                   Airport Industrial
                                   Park.
City of Desert Hot Springs, CA..  For development of             292,200
                                   a community
                                   facility to
                                   address serious
                                   health and public
                                   safety problems in
                                   a low income area.
City of Detroit, MI.............  Infrastructure                 400,000
                                   improvements,
                                   streetscaping, and
                                   ADA compliance in
                                   Detroit.
City of Dothan, AL..............  Demolition,                    500,000
                                   planning, design,
                                   and renovation of
                                   downtown business
                                   district.
City of East Haven, CT..........  Streetscaping,                 500,000
                                   replacing
                                   sidewalks and
                                   curbing, and
                                   installation of
                                   energy-efficient
                                   lighting.
City of Fitchburg, MA...........  Design, planning               275,000
                                   and engineering
                                   work for the
                                   development of an
                                   industrial park.
City of Forsyth, GA.............  For renovations of             650,000
                                   the former Tift
                                   College to house
                                   the Georgia
                                   Department of
                                   Corrections.
                                   Buildings are in
                                   disrepair and must
                                   be brought up to
                                   the code.
City of Fort Smith, AR..........  Downtown Riverfront            250,000
                                   Economic
                                   Development
                                   Initiative
                                   planning, design
                                   and construction.
City of Fort Worth, TX..........  Trinity River                  500,000
                                   Vision land
                                   acquisition.
City of Gardendale, AL..........  Renovations and                100,000
                                   improvements to a
                                   facility for
                                   disabled youth,
                                   with the
                                   Gardendale Miracle
                                   League.
City of Gig Harbor, Gig Harbor,   For construction of            730,500
 WA.                               a multi-use
                                   facility by the
                                   Boys and Girls
                                   Club.
City of Greenville, MS..........  For renovations and            300,000
                                   infrastructure
                                   enhancements for a
                                   youth wellness
                                   project.
City of Guntersville, AL........  Guntersville Harbor            200,000
                                   breakwater
                                   replacement.
City of Hartford Housing          Demolition and                 500,000
 Authority, Hartford, CT.          reconstruction of
                                   a housing complex.
City of Hattiesburg, MS.........  For renovations and            500,000
                                   replacement of
                                   buildings and
                                   equipment in a
                                   park in a blighted
                                   neighborhood.
City of Hillsboro, TX...........  Land acquisition               400,000
                                   and construction
                                   at Hillsboro parks.
City of Hondo, TX...............  Construction of a              300,000
                                   new shelter for
                                   women who have
                                   been victimized by
                                   physical abuse.
City of Hopkinsville, KY........  For infrastructure           4,000,000
                                   improvements at
                                   the Hopkinsville-
                                   Christian County
                                   Industrial Mega
                                   Site.
City of Huntington Park, CA.....  Construction of an             300,000
                                   ADA-compliant
                                   trail.
City of Hyden, KY...............  For construction               500,000
                                   and development of
                                   a community
                                   wellness facility
                                   to serve
                                   southeastern
                                   Kentucky.
City of Irondale, AL............  City of Irondale               200,000
                                   streetscape
                                   project.
City of Jackson, MS.............  For property                 1,005,000
                                   improvements
                                   related to the
                                   Capitol Street
                                   Renaissance.
City of Jackson, MS.............  For renovation and             550,000
                                   rehabilitation of
                                   the City of
                                   Jackson's public
                                   facilities for the
                                   arts and science.
City of Jal, NM.................  Renovation of a                400,000
                                   vacant building
                                   for economic
                                   development.
City of Jefferson, IA...........  Streetscape                    400,000
                                   improvements.
City of Jersey City, NJ.........  Construction at and            400,000
                                   remediation of a
                                   brownfield and
                                   development of a
                                   mixed use
                                   community.
City of Joshua, TX..............  Land acquisition             1,000,000
                                   and construction
                                   and equipment for
                                   park areas.
City of Laredo, TX..............  Renovation and                 200,000
                                   construction at
                                   the Laredo Little
                                   Theatre.
City of Lawndale, CA............  Design, demolition,            300,000
                                   and construction
                                   of a new community
                                   center.
City of Lewiston, ME............  For the City of                900,000
                                   Lewiston's ongoing
                                   efforts to
                                   revitalize its
                                   riverfront.
City of Malden..................  Demolition of a                400,000
                                   building and
                                   streetscaping to
                                   revitalize a
                                   downtown area.
City of Marine City, MI.........  Marine City                    250,000
                                   historic building
                                   renovation.
City of Memphis/Memphis Housing   Construction and               200,000
 Authority, TN.                    renovation at
                                   vacant public
                                   housing for mixed-
                                   income senior
                                   housing.
City of Midland, Midland, TX....  For renovations to             500,000
                                   30-year old
                                   facilities which
                                   serve the Midland
                                   community.
City of Nappanee, IN............  Nappanee Airport/              250,000
                                   New Industrial
                                   Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
City of New Iberia, LA..........  Construction of a              300,000
                                   multi-use facility
                                   in New Iberia.
City of Norco, CA...............  Santa Ana River                100,000
                                   Trail construction.
City of North Adams, MA.........  Construction at an             375,000
                                   historic building
                                   for ADA compliance.
City of North Adams, MA.........  For renovation and             194,800
                                   restoration of a
                                   downtown historic
                                   building in order
                                   to reduce blight
                                   and attract
                                   private investment.
City of North Port, FL..........  Family Services                100,000
                                   Center facility
                                   expansion.
City of Oxford, MS..............  For renovation of a            500,000
                                   historic structure.
City of Palatka, FL.............  Palatka Riverfront             250,000
                                   Redevelopment.
City of Pascagoula, Pascagoula,   For reconstruction             500,000
 MS.                               of City of
                                   Pascagoula beach
                                   park promenade.
City of Pawtucket, RI...........  For repair and                 243,500
                                   renovation of an
                                   historic public
                                   library.
City of Peoria, IL..............   For critical                  243,500
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements
                                   around the Glen
                                   Oak and Harriston
                                   Community Schools.
City of Philadelphia, PA........  For mixed-use                  487,000
                                   Transit Oriented
                                   Development in the
                                   area around the
                                   9th and Berks rail
                                   station.
City of Piedmont, OK............  For the                      1,000,000
                                   construction of a
                                   municipal building.
City of Quincy, IL..............  For the acquisition            194,800
                                   of blighted
                                   residential
                                   properties to
                                   create affordable
                                   housing and
                                   facilitate mixed-
                                   use development.
City of Ravenna, KY.............  Construction and               175,000
                                   renovation at a
                                   public park for
                                   handicap
                                   accessibility.
City of Ray City, GA............  Ray City                       175,000
                                   streetscape and
                                   safety
                                   improvements.
City of Richland, GA............  Streetscaping and              150,000
                                   sidewalk
                                   improvements.
City of Ridgeland, MS...........  City Center                    100,000
                                   renovation and
                                   construction.
City of Rochester, NY...........  For environmental              340,900
                                   remediation,
                                   demolition, and
                                   other side
                                   preparation for
                                   revitalization.
City of Rockford, IL............  Rockford West Side             500,000
                                   economic
                                   development
                                   initiative
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
City of Round Rock, TX..........  Downtown                       500,000
                                   Revitalization and
                                   Main Street
                                   improvements.
City of Ruston, LA..............  For purchase of                194,800
                                   equipment needed
                                   to construct the
                                   city-wide
                                   broadband network
                                   to be managed and
                                   maintained by the
                                   City of Ruston.
City of Salem, OR...............  Infrastructure                 500,000
                                   improvements at
                                   the Mill Creek
                                   Employment Center.
City of San Bernardino, CA......  Verdemont Community            500,000
                                   Center building
                                   construction.
City of Sarasota, FL............  Robert Taylor                  150,000
                                   Community Center
                                   facilities
                                   renovation.
City of Shelby, MT..............  Shelby Downtown                200,000
                                   District
                                   Revitalization
                                   Project building
                                   renovation.
City of Snoqualmie, WA..........  Snoqualmie Historic            250,000
                                   Downtown Main
                                   Street
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
City of Springfield, IL.........  For acquisition of             340,900
                                   abandoned
                                   properties and
                                   upgrades to
                                   infrastructure.
City of Suffolk, VA.............  Dismal Swamp                   200,000
                                   Interpretive
                                   Center building
                                   design and
                                   construction.
City of Tarrant, AL.............  Five Mile Creek                150,000
                                   Greenway
                                   streetscaping
                                   project.
City of Taunton, MA.............  For safety and                 194,800
                                   access
                                   improvements at a
                                   low-income senior
                                   center.
City of Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa,   For the downtown             5,000,000
 AL.                               revitalization
                                   project.
City of Tuskegee, AL............  Tuskegee Industrial            250,000
                                   Park development.
City of Unadilla, GA............  Streetscaping and              100,000
                                   sidewalk
                                   improvements.
City of Warren, PA..............  Capital                        400,000
                                   improvements and
                                   streetscaping in
                                   downtown Warren,
                                   PA.
City of Waterbury, Waterbury, CT  For the                        487,000
                                   redevelopment of
                                   Brownfields and
                                   blighted
                                   properties.
City of Wenatchee, Wenatchee, WA  For property                 1,461,000
                                   acquisition and
                                   renovation of
                                   Wenatchee Pybus
                                   Food Bank and
                                   Distribution
                                   Center.
City of Wilson, NC..............  Redevelopment,                 200,000
                                   renovation and
                                   demolition of
                                   vacant buildings.
City of Winston-Salem, NC.......  For creation of                487,000
                                   office space to
                                   recruit businesses
                                   to Winston-Salem,
                                   as part of the
                                   revitalization of
                                   a blighted area.
City of Worcester, MA...........  Planning, design,              400,000
                                   and engineering
                                   for the Institute
                                   Park Renovation
                                   Project.
City of York, PA................  For restoration and            779,200
                                   preservation of
                                   historic central
                                   market.
Claiborne County Industrial       Claiborne County               189,000
 Development Board.                Center for Higher
                                   Education building
                                   renovations and
                                   rehabilitation.
Clarke County Economic            Clarke County                  400,000
 Development Initiative.           Economic
                                   Development
                                   Initiative
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Cleary University...............  Livingston Campus              250,000
                                   Community Center
                                   building
                                   renovation.
Coalport Borough Council........  Coalport Borough               150,000
                                   streetscape
                                   project.
Commonwealth Library Council,     Repair and                     200,000
 Saipan, MP.                       renovation at the
                                   Joeten-Kiyu Public
                                   Library.
Community Area Resource           For development of             487,000
 Enterprise (CARE 66), Gallup,     up to 60 units of
 NM.                               affordable housing.
Community Chest, Virginia City,   For construction of            194,800
 NV.                               a multi-use
                                   community center
                                   in Storey County.
Community Food Bank, Inc.,        Installation and               200,000
 Tucson, AZ.                       construction of a
                                   solar power array
                                   at the food bank.
Concourse House, HDFC, Bronx, NY  Renovation of                  350,000
                                   Concourse House, a
                                   home for women and
                                   children.
County of Campbell, VA..........  Site development               500,000
                                   and construction
                                   of a library.
County of Kauai, HI.............  For on-site                    243,500
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements to
                                   enable the
                                   construction of 36
                                   residential homes
                                   for low-income
                                   households.
County of Los Angeles, Community  Equipment for Food             150,000
 and Senior Services, Los          Finders, Inc. of
 Angeles, CA.                      Long Beach and
                                   Interfaith Food
                                   Center in Whittier.
County of Minnehaha, SD.........  For construction of            340,900
                                   a facility to
                                   house chronically
                                   homeless persons.
County of Santa Clara,            Design,                        250,000
 Department of Parks and           engineering,
 Recreation, Los Gatos, CA.        surveying and
                                   construction of
                                   Martial Cottle
                                   Park.
Covenant House Alaska,            For the relocation             500,000
 Anchorage, AK.                    of a crisis center
                                   facility.
Crossroads, North Kingstown, RI.  For the development            730,500
                                   and construction
                                   of a Child Care
                                   and Community
                                   Center.
Custer County, ID...............  Custer County                  500,000
                                   community center
                                   development.
Deane Center for the Performing   Building                       100,000
 Arts.                             construction and
                                   renovation for the
                                   Deane Center for
                                   the Performing
                                   Arts.
DeKalb County, GA...............  Construction of the            300,000
                                   Ellenwood
                                   Community Center.
Delaware Children's Museum, DE..  For the                        194,800
                                   construction of
                                   the Delaware
                                   Children's Museum
                                   in Wilmington,
                                   Delaware, as part
                                   of a community
                                   revitalization
                                   effort.
Department of Lands and Natural   Design and                     200,000
 Resources, Saipan, MP.            Construction of
                                   the Garapan Public
                                   Market.
Detroit Institute of Arts (DIA),  Renovation of the              750,000
 Detroit, MI.                      roof at an
                                   historic building.
Divide County, Crosby, ND.......  For reclamation of             292,200
                                   a former Air Force
                                   Base site for
                                   redevelopment.
East Central Community Center,    For design and                 340,900
 Spokane, WA.                      construction of a
                                   community facility.
East Orange Division of Senior    For renovation of a            194,800
 Services, East Orange, NJ.        Senior Citizen
                                   Center.
Eden Housing, Hayward, CA.......  Renovation at the              240,000
                                   Eden Housing
                                   Affordable Housing
                                   Complex.
El Centro de Servicios Sociales,  For construction               584,400
 Lorain, OH.                       and renovation of
                                   an aging structure.
Ellwood City Revitalization       Planning, design,              200,000
 Project, Inc., Ellwood City, PA.  and redevelopment
                                   of downtown
                                   Ellwood City.
Emergency Shelter of the Fox      For acquisition and            340,900
 Valley, Appleton, WI.             rehabilitation of
                                   permanent
                                   supportive housing
                                   for chronically
                                   homeless persons.
Employment Horizons,              Employment Horizons            400,000
 Incorporated.                     building
                                   renovation.
Esperanza on Escalante, Tucson,   Acquisition of                  75,000
 AZ.                               equipment for
                                   expanded services
                                   for homeless
                                   veterans.
Esperanza, Philadelphia, PA.....  For the planning,              194,800
                                   design,
                                   rehabilitation and
                                   construction of
                                   affordable housing
                                   in the Hunting
                                   Park neighborhood.
Eva's Village, Paterson, NJ.....  For renovation of              779,200
                                   the center's
                                   facilities.
Federation of Italian-American    Construction of a              700,000
 Organizations of Brooklyn, Ltd.   community center.
First Steps Primeros Pasos,       For construction               194,800
 Georgetown, DE.                   and start up costs
                                   for a bilingual
                                   early care and
                                   education facility
                                   to help children
                                   of non-English-
                                   speaking families
                                   develop the skills
                                   needed to succeed.
Food Bank for Monterey County,    Acquisition of                 150,000
 Salinas, CA.                      equipment and a
                                   vehicle for the
                                   food bank.
Food Bank of Delaware, Newark,    For expansion of a             194,800
 DE.                               commercial
                                   kitchen, a
                                   volunteer room, a
                                   Culinary Arts
                                   Training Facility,
                                   a retail area and
                                   additional office
                                   space that will
                                   allow the food
                                   bank to meet
                                   growing demand in
                                   Kent and Sussex
                                   counties.
Fort Greene Park Conservancy,     Sidewalk                       300,000
 Brooklyn, NY.                     improvements and
                                   streetscaping at
                                   the Fort Greene
                                   Park Conservancy.
Freestore Foodbank, Cincinnati,   For major                      535,700
 OH.                               renovations on two
                                   heavily used food
                                   bank facilities.
Friendly Fuld Neighborhood        Renovation of a                400,000
 Centers, Inc., Newark., NJ.       building to
                                   provide services
                                   to low-income
                                   children and
                                   families.
Fulton County Commissioners.....  Northeast Fulton               250,000
                                   County water
                                   system.
Geauga Park District............  Geauga Park                    428,000
                                   District/Geauga
                                   County Greenway
                                   Connector land
                                   acquisition.
Georgia Maritime Trade Center     For site                       900,000
 Authority, Savannah, GA.          preparation in
                                   accordance with
                                   the Parcel 7/
                                   Riverwalk Civic
                                   Master Plan,
                                   including planning
                                   and preparation
                                   work, and the
                                   design and
                                   construction of a
                                   public access
                                   floating dock
                                   system to
                                   accommodate
                                   traffic flow to/
                                   from the site.
Gilmer County Family Resource     Acquisition,                   400,000
 Network, Glenville, WV.           renovation,
                                   streetscaping and
                                   facade
                                   improvements.
Great Falls Development           Great Falls                    300,000
 Authority.                        Industrial Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Great Rivers Greenway, St.        Construction of the            200,000
 Louis, MO.                        Carondelet
                                   Greenway Connector.
Greater Boston Food Bank,         For construction of            584,400
 Boston, MA.                       a regional food
                                   distribution
                                   center.
Greater Ouachita Port Commission  Greater Ouachita               250,000
                                   Port, surface
                                   development
                                   project.
Groundwork, Inc., Brooklyn, NY..  Construction of the            600,000
                                   Groundwork
                                   Community Center.
Hampshire County Special          For the acquisition            974,000
 Services Center, WV.              of an additional
                                   facility to
                                   provide services
                                   and employment to
                                   individuals with
                                   developmental
                                   disabilities.
Hawaii Public Housing Authority,  For code                       389,600
 Honolulu, HI.                     enforcement and
                                   renovation of 24
                                   housing units for
                                   very low to low
                                   income elderly
                                   individuals.
Hawaii Public Housing Authority,   For renovation of             389,600
 Honolulu, HI.                     housing units to
                                   provide 25
                                   refurbished
                                   housing units for
                                   low income
                                   individuals.
Heritage Services, Omaha, NE....  For construction of            876,600
                                   an 80,000 square
                                   foot, multi-level
                                   facility that will
                                   accommodate an
                                   education and
                                   interactive
                                   learning center.
Hillsborough Community College..  Building                       200,000
                                   Renovations--Brand
                                   on Campus.
Hillview Acres Children.........  Hillview Acres                 250,000
                                   Children building
                                   renovation.
Homeward, Inc., Clarion, IA.....  For expansion of a             194,800
                                   construction
                                   finance program to
                                   develop housing in
                                   rural communities
                                   for low income
                                   individuals.
Hornell Family YMCA, Hornell, NY  Construction of new            400,000
                                   and renovation of
                                   older structures
                                   for cultural
                                   programs.
Housing Authority of Calvert      Renovation and                 375,000
 County, Prince Frederick, MD.     expansion of a
                                   homeless shelter.
Housing Connections, Wheeling,    Acquisition and                300,000
 WV.                               renovation of
                                   affordable housing.
Housing Vermont, Burlington, VT.  For construction               243,500
                                   and improvement of
                                   housing stock.
Howard County, MD...............  For rehabilitation             487,000
                                   and equipment
                                   purchase for
                                   community and
                                   wellness rooms in
                                   a low and moderate
                                   income elderly
                                   housing community.
Hudson Area Library Association,  Restoration and                200,000
 Hudson, NY.                       renovation of the
                                   Hudson Area
                                   Library.
Huntington Community Development  Renovations and                200,000
 Agency, Huntington, NY.           energy efficient
                                   retrofits for
                                   small business
                                   development.
Inc. Village of Lynbrook, NY....  Streetscaping and              200,000
                                   sidewalk
                                   improvements.
Iowa Department of Economic       For rehabilitation             974,000
 Development, Des Moines, IA.      of buildings and
                                   areas.
Jackson County Commission, WV...  For expansion of             1,461,000
                                   the drill hall and
                                   supporting
                                   facilities at the
                                   proposed Spencer-
                                   Ripley Armed
                                   Forces Reserve
                                   Center.
Jackson County, MS..............  For Phase I of                 700,000
                                   construction and
                                   renovation of
                                   Walter Anderson
                                   Arts Pavilion.
Jefferson County Convention &     Harpers Ferry                  250,000
 Visitors Bureau (JCCVB).          Interpretative
                                   Welcome Center
                                   building
                                   construction.
KC Parks and Recreation           For the                      2,500,000
 Department, Kansas City, MO.      construction of
                                   new community
                                   center.
Kentucky Blood Center...........  Kentucky Blood                 500,000
                                   Center building
                                   construction.
Kentucky Communities Economic     Construction of a              250,000
 Opportunity Council, Gray, KY.    community wellness
                                   center.
Kids Come First, Columbus, OH...  For construction of            650,000
                                   a child care
                                   facility.
King County Housing Authority,    For the renovation             974,000
 King County, WA.                  and expansion of
                                   three youth
                                   community centers
                                   located in three
                                   public housing
                                   sites.
Lackawanna County Board of        Design and                     200,000
 Commissioners, Scranton, PA.      construction of a
                                   Small Business
                                   Incubator and/or
                                   Multipurpose
                                   Center.
Lake Metroparks.................  Lake Metroparks/               500,000
                                   Mill Creek
                                   Corridor
                                   Preservation land
                                   acquisition.
Lanakila Rehabilitation Center,   For renovation and             292,200
 Honolulu, HI.                     expansion of the
                                   Wahiawa Training
                                   and Support
                                   Complex, which
                                   will double
                                   capacity to
                                   provide training
                                   and employment
                                   opportunities for
                                   people with
                                   disabilities and
                                   other low income
                                   individuals.
Larchmont Public Library,         Renovation of the              175,000
 Larchmont, NY.                    Larchmont Public
                                   Library.
Lawrence Community Shelter,       Acquisition and                200,000
 Inc., Lawrence, KS.               renovation to
                                   relocate and
                                   enlarge a homeless
                                   shelter.
Liberty Housing Development       Acquisition and                300,000
 Corporation, Philadelphia, PA.    renovation of
                                   residential units
                                   to transition
                                   disabled persons
                                   into communities.
Longview Housing Authority,       For the                        489,600
 Longview, WA.                     rehabilitation of
                                   an historic
                                   building into a
                                   veterans housing
                                   and service center.
Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, Lower    For purchase of new            194,800
 Brule, SD.                        playground
                                   equipment and
                                   upgrades to a
                                   kitchen and
                                   learning areas of
                                   a daycare facility
                                   to improve safety
                                   for children.
Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, Lower    For upgrades to a              340,900
 Brule, SD.                        community center.
Luna County Community Recreation  For the renovation             399,340
 Facility, NM.                     of the old Pepsi
                                   building to house
                                   dedicated youth
                                   activities,
                                   practice space,
                                   and community
                                   meeting rooms.
MAGNET, Cleveland, OH...........  Renovation and                 400,000
                                   restoration of the
                                   Manufacturing
                                   Innovation Center.
Manatee County, FL..............  Construction of a              250,000
                                   community center
                                   in a low-income
                                   neighborhood.
Maryland Department of Natural    For restoration and            462,650
 Resources, Annapolis, MD.         preservation of
                                   properties to
                                   alleviate economic
                                   distress through
                                   stimulation of
                                   private investment
                                   and community
                                   revitalization.
Maryland Food Bank, Baltimore,    Construction,                  492,200
 MD.                               renovation and
                                   equipment at the
                                   Maryland Food Bank.
Maui Economic Concerns of the     For rehabilitation             487,000
 Community, Wailuku, HI.           and improvement of
                                   a homeless
                                   resource center
                                   and affordable
                                   housing for low-
                                   income residents.
Meet Each Need with Dignity       Acquisition of                 130,000
 (MEND), Pacoima, CA.              equipment to
                                   expand services to
                                   low-income
                                   individuals.
Mercy Housing and Shelter         Renovation of a                500,000
 Corporation, Hartford, CT.        homeless and
                                   transitional
                                   shelter.
Metropolitan Council on Jewish    Renovations and                150,000
 Poverty, New York, NY.            repairs at low-
                                   income residences.
Metropolitan Development          Infrastructure                 200,000
 Association of Syracuse and       improvements at
 Central New York, Inc.,           the Syracuse
 Syracuse, NY.                     University
                                   Research Park.
Mid Plains Community College,     For construction of            487,000
 McCook, NE.                       a new Events
                                   Center that
                                   supports rural
                                   economic
                                   development and
                                   activity in
                                   southwestern
                                   Nebraska.
Middlesex Community College,      For redevelopment              194,800
 Lowell, MA.                       of an
                                   underutilized
                                   historic building
                                   to expand
                                   community services.
Mid-South Community College,      Construction of                350,000
 West Memphis, AR.                 classroom and
                                   laboratory space
                                   to increase
                                   capacity for
                                   workforce training.
Military Business Park, City of   For construction of            584,400
 Fayetteville, NC.                 a military
                                   business park.
Mingo County Redevelopment        Development and                400,000
 Authority, Williamson, WV.        construction of
                                   the Southern
                                   Highlands
                                   Initiative.
Ministry of Caring, Wilmington,   For renovations to             194,800
 DE.                               the Josephine
                                   Bakhita House to
                                   serve as residence
                                   for young adults
                                   who are committed
                                   to social
                                   responsibility and
                                   giving back to the
                                   community through
                                   volunteer service.
Monroe County Fiscal Court......  Monroe County                  250,000
                                   Farmer's Market
                                   facility
                                   construction.
Montana Department of Fish,       For redevelopment              730,500
 Wildlife, and Parks, MT.          of a Superfund
                                   site and a state
                                   park.
Mookini Luakini Foundation,       For construction               194,800
 North Kohala, HI.                 and renovation of
                                   a cultural
                                   education center
                                   for low income
                                   youth.
Morgan Arts Council.............  Community Center               200,000
                                   building
                                   renovations.
Mt. Washington Community          For planning,                  194,800
 Development Corporation,          designing, site
 Pittsburgh, PA.                   preparation,
                                   demolition and
                                   construction
                                   associated with
                                   brownfield
                                   redevelopment.
Multi-Disciplinary Combined       For construction of          1,000,000
 Facility for the Copper River     a facility.
 Native Association, AK.
Muskingum County Commissioners,   Renovation of a                300,000
 Zanesville, OH.                   building to create
                                   a business
                                   incubator.
Nassau County Museum of Art,      Construction and               200,000
 Roslyn Harbor, NY.                expansion.
Navajo Technical College,         For construction of            389,600
 Crownpoint, NM.                   a regional health
                                   center located on
                                   the campus of the
                                   Navajo Technical
                                   College.
Nevada Housing and Neighborhood   For development of             681,800
 Development (HAND), Las Vegas,    an assisted living
 NV.                               facility for low
                                   income seniors.
New Bethany Ministries building   Rehabilitation of a            250,000
 renovation.                       building to
                                   provide services
                                   for low-income
                                   people.
New Futures, Seattle, WA........  For the planning,              438,300
                                   design and
                                   construction of a
                                   community center.
New York Families for Autistic    Energy efficient               300,000
 Children, Ozone Park, NY.         renovations and
                                   construction at
                                   the New York
                                   Families for
                                   Autistic Children
                                   facility.
Nicetown CDC, Philadelphia, PA..  Construction of a              400,000
                                   low-income housing
                                   tax credit project.
Nisei Veterans Committee          Acquisition of land            200,000
 Foundation, Seattle, WA.          for the Nisei
                                   veterans memorial.
Noble County Health Department,   For the                        389,600
 Caldwell, OH.                     rehabilitation of
                                   a 30-year-old
                                   building to
                                   increase
                                   functionality and
                                   energy efficiency.
North Country Vietnam Veterans    North Country                  250,000
 Association.                      Vietnam Veterans
                                   Association
                                   building and
                                   renovations.
North Olympic Regional Housing    For the purchase               487,000
 Network, Forks, WA.               and conversion of
                                   a building into
                                   transitional and
                                   permanent
                                   supportive housing
                                   for homeless
                                   veterans and their
                                   families.
Northeast Iowa Food Bank,         For construction of            340,900
 Waterloo, IA.                     a food warehouse
                                   and distribution
                                   center.
Northern Comm. Investment Corp.,  To continue to               1,000,000
 St. Johnsbury, VT.                expand high speed,
                                   high technology
                                   broadband
                                   connectivity to
                                   New Hampshire's
                                   North Country.
Northside Community Housing,      To provide                   1,000,000
 Inc., St. Louis, MO.              renovations in
                                   order to preserve
                                   affordable housing
                                   units for low and
                                   moderate income
                                   seniors,
                                   individuals, and
                                   families.
Oak Ridge Cemetery..............  Oak Ridge Cemetery             250,000
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Oklahoma City Community College.  Capitol Hill Center            200,000
                                   building
                                   renovations.
Operation Fightback, NY, NY.....  Construction of 74             750,000
                                   units of
                                   affordable housing.
Orange County, FL...............  Renovation and                 400,000
                                   construction of
                                   the Central
                                   Receiving Center
                                   for the homeless.
Our City Reading, Reading, PA...  For rehabilitation             194,800
                                   of abandoned
                                   houses and
                                   provision of down
                                   payment assistance
                                   to home buyers.
Pantry Partners Food Bank.......  Pantry Partners                200,000
                                   Food Bank building
                                   project.
Para Los Ninos, Los Angeles, CA.  Renovations at the             250,000
                                   Vermont Child
                                   Development Center.
Parish of Ascension, LA.........  For acquisition of             681,800
                                   the multi-purpose
                                   center.
Paulding County Industrial        Paulding County                250,000
 Building Authority.               Technology Park
                                   building
                                   construction.
Pendleton Round-Up Foundation,    For the                        487,000
 Pendleton, OR.                    reconstruction and
                                   construction needs
                                   of facilities
                                   which are critical
                                   to the local
                                   economy.
Peoria Park District............  Proctor Center park            250,000
                                   redevelopment.
Planning Office for Urban         Construction of                750,000
 Affairs, Inc., Boston, MA.        affordable housing
                                   in St. Aidan's
                                   Redevelopment.
Pocahontas County Commission,     For construction of          2,922,000
 Marlinton, WV.                    a multipurpose
                                   community center,
                                   which would
                                   promote the health
                                   and wellness of
                                   county residents,
                                   and provide youth
                                   and adult alcohol
                                   and drug
                                   prevention
                                   programs.
Polk County, FL.................  Polk County                    200,000
                                   Agricultural
                                   Center building
                                   renovation.
Port of Coos Bay, Coos Bay, OR..  For purchase of                340,900
                                   critical dock
                                   equipment
                                   essential to local
                                   economic survival.
Portsmouth Music Hall,            For repairs,                 1,000,000
 Portsmouth, NH.                   restoration and
                                   modernization of a
                                   theater and
                                   construction of an
                                   additional space.
Pregones Theater, Bronx, NY.....  Renovation and                 150,000
                                   buildout of the
                                   Pregones Theater.
Public Action to Deliver          Renovation and                 200,000
 Shelter, Inc., DBA Hesed House,   construction of a
 Aurora, IL.                       homeless resource
                                   center.
Randolph County Industrial        Industrial Park                250,000
 Development Council.              South
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Rebuilding Together Houston,      Renovations of                 400,000
 Houston, TX.                      housing for
                                   veterans who are
                                   low-income or
                                   disabled.
Redevelopment Authority of the    For site                       292,200
 City of Milwaukee, WI.            acquisition,
                                   demolition,
                                   remediation and
                                   redevelopment of
                                   priority sites in
                                   the 30th Street
                                   Industrial
                                   Corridor.
Ritchie County Public Library,    Renovation and                 200,000
 Harrisville, WV.                  construction of
                                   the Ritchie County
                                   Public Library.
Riverfront, Inc., La Crosse, WI.  For expansion of a             292,200
                                   training facility
                                   for vocational and
                                   independent living
                                   services.
Riverplace Development            The Penn Corridor              250,000
 Corporation.                      streetscaping.
Riverworks Development            Acquisition of                 250,000
 Corporation, Milwaukee, WI.       blighted and
                                   abandoned
                                   buildings and
                                   vacant lots in the
                                   Five Point
                                   Exchange area.
Rockingham Community College,     Design and                     250,000
 Wentworth, NC.                    equipment at the
                                   McMichael Civic
                                   Center.
Rockland Housing Action           For construction of            974,000
 Coalition, Nanuet, NY.            permanent,
                                   supportive rental
                                   housing for
                                   existing and
                                   returning disabled
                                   veterans and their
                                   families.
Rocky Mountain Development        Caird Iron Works               200,000
 Council.                          Redevelopment.
Rocky Mountain Youth Corps,       For preconstruction            292,200
 Rancho de Taos, NM.               costs of a youth
                                   facility.
Safe Harbors of the Hudson,       Restoration and                400,000
 Inc., Newburgh, NY.               renovation at the
                                   historic Ritz
                                   Theater.
Saginaw County, MI..............  For an energy                  340,900
                                   efficient
                                   infrastructure
                                   demonstration
                                   project to support
                                   the renaissance of
                                   downtown Saginaw.
San Mateo County, CA............  Construction and               200,000
                                   renovation of the
                                   Half Moon Bay
                                   Library.
Scranton City, PA...............  For elimination of             292,200
                                   slum and blight.
Self-Help Housing Corporation of  For the                        487,000
 Hawaii, Honolulu, HI.             construction of a
                                   76 lot subdivision
                                   for self-help
                                   housing project
                                   for low income
                                   families.
Seneca County Industrial          Demolition of two              200,000
 Development Agency, Waterloo,     buildings at the
 NY.                               Seneca Army Depot.
Silver Stage Youth Organization,  For design and                 194,800
 Silver Springs, NV.               construction of a
                                   youth facility.
Snohomish County, Everett, WA...  For the acquisition            974,000
                                   and renovation of
                                   a new facility for
                                   use by Dawson's
                                   Place Child
                                   Advocacy Center.
South Carolina Maritime           Spirit of South                250,000
 Foundation.                       Carolina
                                   facilities
                                   construction and
                                   curriculum
                                   development.
South Jersey Economic             Aviation Research              250,000
 Development District.             and Technology
                                   Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
South Tangipahoa Parish Port      Port Manchac                   100,000
 Commission.                       Bulkhead
                                   renovations.
Spirit Lake Nation, Fort Totten,  For construction of            730,500
 ND.                               low income senior
                                   housing units.
Squamscott Community Commons,     For the                      1,000,000
 Exeter, NH.                       construction of a
                                   new community
                                   center.
St. Ann's Infant and Maternity    Renovations and                200,000
 Home, Hyattsville, MD.            systems upgrades.
St. Louis County Economic         For the final                3,000,000
 Council, St. Louis, MO.           design and
                                   construction of
                                   Wellston Child
                                   Care Center.
St. Mary Development Corporation  Renaissance                    400,000
                                   Alliance Project--
                                   St. Mary
                                   Development
                                   Corporation
                                   building
                                   acquisition and
                                   demolition.
Starr Commonwealth, Battle        For renovations to             876,600
 Creek, MI.                        facilities serving
                                   at-risk youth.
Starr Commonwealth, Detroit, MI.  Renovation and                 350,000
                                   expansion of
                                   transitional
                                   facilities for
                                   youth.
Susquehanna County Library,       Construction of a              300,000
 Montrose, PA.                     public library.
Tacoma Rescue Mission, Tacoma,    Construction of a              350,000
 WA.                               facility for
                                   homeless women and
                                   families.
Tallahatchie County, MS.........  For renovation of              195,000
                                   the Emmett Till
                                   Memorial Complex.
Texas College...................  Discovery Learning             250,000
                                   Center Program
                                   building
                                   renovation.
Texas State Technical College...  TSTC Marshall                  200,000
                                   Transportation and
                                   Industrial
                                   Manufacturing
                                   Building.
Texas Wesleyan University.......  Rosedale Avenue                250,000
                                   Redevelopment
                                   Initiative
                                   renovations.
The Arc of Spokane, Spokane, WA.  For capital costs              974,000
                                   and equipment
                                   acquisition for
                                   the renovation of
                                   an Arc of Spokane
                                   building.
The City of Rainsville, AL......  Northeast Alabama              200,000
                                   Agri-Business
                                   Center facility
                                   construction.
The Coalition for Buzzards Bay,   Green renovation of            250,000
 New Bedford, MA.                  an educational
                                   facility.
The Community Food Bank of San    Acquisition of a               150,000
 Benito County, CA.                building for the
                                   food bank.
The Dunbar Coalition, Tucson, AZ  Rehabilitation of              250,000
                                   the African
                                   American Museum
                                   and Cultural
                                   Center.
The Home for Little Wanderers,    Renovation of the              300,000
 Boston, MA.                       Knight Children's
                                   Center, Jamaica
                                   Plain.
The Housing Trust of Santa Clara  Capitalization of a            700,000
 County, CA.                       revolving loan
                                   fund.
The Institute for Human           For construction of            194,800
 Services, Honolulu, HI.           a job and skills
                                   training center at
                                   Hawaii's oldest
                                   and largest
                                   emergency homeless
                                   shelter.
The Manor, Jonesville, MI.......  Construction of                250,000
                                   educational
                                   facilities for
                                   developmentally
                                   disabled youth.
The Murphy Theatre Community      The Murphy Theatre             250,000
 Center, Inc..                     building
                                   renovation.
The Old Slater Mill Association,  For completion of              194,800
 Pawtucket, RI.                    the historic
                                   restoration
                                   project at the
                                   Historic Slater
                                   Mill.
The School for Children with      Construction of an             250,000
 Hidden Intelligence.              educational
                                   facility providing
                                   special education
                                   services.
The Sunnybrook Foundation.......  Sunnybrook Historic            250,000
                                   Revitalization
                                   Project building
                                   renovation.
The Unity Council, Oakland, CA..  Rehabilitation of              250,000
                                   the Fruitvale
                                   Community Cultural
                                   Center in Oakland,
                                   CA.
Theodore Roosevelt Medora         For restoration and            292,200
 Foundation, Medora, ND.           expansion of
                                   historic property.
Three Square Food Bank, Las       Acquisition of                 200,000
 Vegas, NV.                        equipment and
                                   vehicles for food
                                   pickup and
                                   distribution.
Tides Family Services, West       For renovation and             340,900
 Warwick, RI.                      expansion of a
                                   center for at-risk
                                   youth.
Toledo Metroparks, Toledo, OH...  Acquisition of the             500,000
                                   remaining 62 acres
                                   of Keil Farm.
Toledo-Lucas County Port          For purchase and             1,300,000
 Authority, Toledo, OH.            remediation of the
                                   110 acre former
                                   Jeep Parkway
                                   property.
Town of Cambria, NY.............  Old Military Base              250,000
                                   Phase One
                                   Demolition Project.
Town of Darien, CT..............  Construction of an             250,000
                                   affordable housing
                                   development.
Town of Gorham, NH..............  For renovation of a            194,800
                                   community facility
                                   to house programs
                                   serving children,
                                   youth and families
                                   in Coos County.
Town of Greenville, ME..........  For the completion             250,000
                                   of the Greenville
                                   Junction Wharf.
Town of Hammonton, NJ...........  Hammonton Downtown             250,000
                                   building
                                   renovation.
Town of North Kingstown, RI.....  For construction of            292,200
                                   a new senior
                                   center.
Town of Pelahatchie, MS.........  Pelahatchie site               150,000
                                   development for
                                   economic
                                   development.
Town of Silver City, NM.........  For the                        584,400
                                   construction of
                                   the Vistas de
                                   Plata, a 56 unit
                                   affordable housing
                                   project.
Town of Syracuse, IN............  Syracuse Technology            500,000
                                   and Industrial
                                   Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Towhship of Clinton, NJ.........  Township of Clinton            250,000
                                   affordable housing
                                   site preparation.
Township of Union, NJ...........  Irvington Branch of            250,000
                                   Lightning Brook
                                   retaining wall
                                   replacement.
Trenton, NJ.....................  Trenton Train                  200,000
                                   Station area
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Triangle Residential Options for  Construction of a              400,000
 Substance Abusers (TROSA),        dorm for a
 Durham, NC.                       substance abuse
                                   recovery program.
Tubman African American Museum,   Construction of the            250,000
 Macon, GA.                        Tubman Museum.
Tundra Women's Coalition,         For replacement of             487,000
 Bethel, AK.                       a women's facility.
UDI Community Development         Renovation and                 200,000
 Corporation, Durham, NC.          conversion of
                                   deteriorating
                                   buildings to mixed-
                                   use commercial/
                                   residential space.
United Way of Dane County,        For acquisition and            194,800
 Madison, WI.                      redevelopment of
                                   apartment units in
                                   order to provide
                                   supportive housing
                                   for homeless
                                   families.
United Way of Kitsap County,      For capital costs            1,217,500
 Bremerton, WA.                    related to the
                                   development of the
                                   United Way Non-
                                   profit Community
                                   Center.
Unity House of Troy, NY.........  Construction and               300,000
                                   renovation of a
                                   domestic violence
                                   shelter.
Uptown Theater, Philadelphia, PA  Renovation of the              350,000
                                   Uptown Theater.
Urban League of Springfield, MA.  Renovation of                  450,000
                                   facilities at Camp
                                   Atwater, a camp
                                   serving
                                   Springfield, MA.
Utah Food Bank Services, UT.....  For expanding the              250,000
                                   capacity to
                                   collect and
                                   distribute food to
                                   low-income
                                   individuals and
                                   families.
Valley Forge Military Academy     Renovation and                 300,000
 and College, Wayne, PA.           construction at
                                   Von Steuben Hall.
Vermont Association of Area       For improvements to            487,000
 Agencies on Aging, Barre, VT.     facilities for
                                   seniors.
Vermont Division for Historic     For preservation of            194,800
 Preservation, Montpelier, VT.     historic assets.
Vermont Foodbank, Barre, VT.....  For energy                     194,800
                                   efficiency
                                   improvements.
Vermont Housing and Conservation  For enhancement of           3,896,000
 Board, Montpelier, VT.            affordable
                                   housing, community
                                   development
                                   initiatives,
                                   economic
                                   development, land
                                   conservation and
                                   historic
                                   preservation.
Vermont Housing and Conservation  For the                        243,500
 Board, Montpelier, VT.            construction and
                                   improvement of
                                   housing stock.
Veterans Memorial Building        Restoration of the             200,000
 Development Committee of the      Veterans Memorial
 San Ramon Valley, Danville, CA.   Building for the
                                   San Ramon Valley.
Veterans of Foreign Wars Post     Renovation of                  200,000
 6249 Rocky Point, NY.             facility for
                                   handicap
                                   accessibility.
Village of Villa Park, IL.......  Streetscaping,                 250,000
                                   South Villa
                                   Corridor.
Ville Market Place, St. Louis,    Construction of a              300,000
 MO.                               farmer's market in
                                   an inner city
                                   neighborhood.
Volunteers of America Michigan,   For expansion of               389,600
 Lansing, MI.                      housing shelters
                                   and community
                                   access to medical,
                                   social, civic and
                                   economic services.
Waipa Foundation, Hanalei, HI...  For construction,              389,600
                                   renovation, and
                                   equipment purchase
                                   for a state-
                                   certified
                                   commercial
                                   kitchen, food
                                   mill, and
                                   underground oven
                                   for vocational
                                   training and
                                   processing of
                                   value-added
                                   agricultural
                                   products in low-
                                   income and farming
                                   communities.
Wakpa Sica Reconciliation Place,  Construction of                280,000
 Ft. Pierre, SD.                   Wakpa Sica
                                   Reconciliation
                                   Place.
Wallington, NJ..................  Streetscaping and              250,000
                                   ADA compliance.
Washington County, MO...........  Washington County              300,000
                                   ADA building
                                   renovations.
Wayne County Economic             Construction and               200,000
 Development District,             infrastructure at
 Waynesboro, MS.                   the Wayne County
                                   Industrial Park.
Wayne State College, Wayne, NE..  For construction of            292,200
                                   a new
                                   collaborative
                                   education center.
West Columbia, SC...............  To establish an                250,000
                                   enrichment complex
                                   for families and
                                   children.
West Manheim Township Park and    West Manheim                   250,000
 Recreation Board.                 Township Park
                                   facilities
                                   improvements.
West Orlando Rotary Club,         Construction of                150,000
 Orlando, FL.                      wheelchair ramps
                                   for low-income
                                   residents.
West Valley City, UT............  For the                      1,000,000
                                   construction of
                                   City Center Plaza
                                   in a blighted
                                   area, a critical
                                   element of a major
                                   redevelopment
                                   project with a
                                   planned intermodal
                                   center.
Westerly Area Rest Meals (WARM    For expansion and              292,200
 Inc.), Westerly, RI.              renovation of a
                                   community soup
                                   kitchen.
Western Montana Children's        Construction of a              625,000
 Safety Initiative, MT.            children's shelter
                                   facility.
Winston County Commission, AL...  Winston County                 400,000
                                   Industrial Park
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Wistariahurst Museum, Holyoke,    Renovation and                 250,000
 MA.                               expansion at the
                                   Wistariahurst
                                   Museum.
Wright-Dunbar, Inc..............  Wright-Dunbar                  250,000
                                   Redevelopment
                                   Project building
                                   renovation.
Yellowstone Boys and Girls Ranch  Yellowstone Boys               100,000
                                   and Girls Ranch
                                   building
                                   renovation.
YMCA of Greater NY, New York, NY  Planning, design               300,000
                                   and construction
                                   of a community
                                   center.
Youngstown Central Area           Remediation and                450,000
 Community Improvement             renovation of a
 Corporation, Youngstown, OH.      brownfield site to
                                   be suitable for
                                   technology-based
                                   businesses.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The Department is directed to implement the Neighborhood 
Initiatives program as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Grantee                    Purpose              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Calhoun County, MS..............  For renovation and            $900,000
                                   construction of a
                                   historic
                                   courthouse.
CAP Services, Stevens Point, WI.  Business incubator             400,000
                                   support for start-
                                   up companies.
Capitol Hill Housing, Seattle,    For the                        706,150
 WA.                               construction of
                                   affordable housing.
Center for Planning Excellence,   For provision of               974,000
 Baton Rouge, LA.                  technical
                                   assistance to a
                                   community
                                   regarding
                                   sustainable
                                   development,
                                   neighborhood
                                   revitalization,
                                   housing and land
                                   use planning.
City of Charleston..............  Construction of the            525,000
                                   International
                                   African American
                                   Museum.
City of Gig Harbor, Gig Harbor,   For improved                 1,461,000
 WA.                               physical access to
                                   area businesses.
City of Harker Heights, TX......  Armed Services YMCA            750,000
                                   facility
                                   construction,
                                   Harker Heights, TX.
City of Las Vegas, NV...........  Foreclosure                    200,000
                                   prevention and
                                   intervention
                                   program.
City of Olympia, Olympia, WA....  For downtown                 1,071,400
                                   revitalization and
                                   business access
                                   improvements.
City of Superior, WI............  Expansion and                2,000,000
                                   improvement of
                                   shipyard repair
                                   capacity on the
                                   Great Lakes.
Cleveland Institute of Art......  Cleveland Institute            500,000
                                   of Art building
                                   construction,
                                   Cleveland, OH.
Consumer Credit Counseling        For foreclosure                487,000
 Service, Las Vegas, NV.           prevention efforts.
County of San Bernardino,         Inland Empire                1,000,000
 Riverside County.                 Economic Recovery
                                   Corporation, San
                                   Bernardino, CA.
Growing Places, Centralia, WA...  For facility and               487,000
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements to an
                                   education and job
                                   training facility
                                   serving at-risk
                                   youth.
Holyoke Community College,        For completion of              243,500
 Holyoke, MA.                      construction of a
                                   one-stop
                                   education, social
                                   services, and job
                                   training center
                                   serving low-income
                                   persons.
homeWORD, Missoula, MT..........  For development of             487,000
                                   rental housing
                                   that is affordable
                                   to working
                                   families.
Housing Initiative Partnership,   Spanish-language               500,000
 Inc., Hyattsville, MD.            foreclosure
                                   prevention program
                                   in Prince George's
                                   County, MD.
Jacksonville Area Legal Aid,      For foreclosure                389,600
 Jacksonville, FL.                 prevention
                                   training and other
                                   legal services.
Jefferson County, CO............  For the housing                487,000
                                   authority to
                                   establish a new
                                   program of housing
                                   and supportive
                                   services for
                                   homeless veterans.
Lighthouse for the Blind, Inc.,   For the improved               535,700
 Seattle, WA.                      accessibility of
                                   community and
                                   transit services
                                   for blind, low
                                   vision, and deaf-
                                   blind individuals
                                   in King, Pierce,
                                   and Spokane
                                   counties in
                                   Washington State.
Mississippi State University,     For community                  500,000
 Starkville, MS.                   planning and
                                   development.
National Community Renaissance..  National Community           1,000,000
                                   Renaissance
                                   Affordable Housing
                                   Program, Rancho
                                   Cucamonga, CA.
National Council of La Raza,      Capitalization of a          1,000,000
 Washington, DC.                   revolving loan
                                   fund to be used
                                   for nationwide
                                   community
                                   development
                                   activities.
NeighborWorks Lincoln, Lincoln,   For neighborhood               487,000
 NE.                               revitalization
                                   including
                                   elimination of
                                   blight,
                                   construction of
                                   single family
                                   homes,
                                   rehabilitation and
                                   repairs.
New Orleans Redevelopment         Reduce Blight on               860,000
 Authority.                        Critical
                                   Corridors, New
                                   Orleans, LA.
North End Action Team,            For foreclosure                194,800
 Middletown, CT.                   prevention
                                   assistance.
North Quabbin Woods/New England   Support economic                75,000
 Forestry Foundation, Orange, MA.  development in the
                                   North Quabbin
                                   region.
North West Wisconsin Regional     Expansion of                   500,000
 Planning Commission, Spooner,     business
 WI.                               incubators in Rusk
                                   County, including
                                   infrastructure
                                   improvements.
Northern Community Investment     For capitalization             487,000
 Corporation, Berlin, NH.          of a revolving
                                   loan fund to
                                   support businesses
                                   in New Hampshire's
                                   North Country.
South Dakota Science and          For infrastucture              389,600
 Technology Authority, Lead, SD.   improvements to
                                   the Homestake Mine.
Southeastern Connecticut Housing  For programs to                194,800
 Alliance, Norwich, CT.            increase
                                   affordable housing.
Technology Access Foundation,     For the                        487,000
 White Center, WA.                 construction of
                                   the TAF Community
                                   Learning Space
                                   facility.
Town of Huntington, NY..........  For construction of            779,200
                                   a state-of-the-art
                                   community center
                                   for veterans.
Urban League of Southern          For homeownership              292,200
 Connecticut, Stamford, CT.        and foreclosure
                                   prevention
                                   counseling.
Western Kentucky University.....  WKU Business                   250,000
                                   Accelerator.
YWCA of Yakima, Yakima, WA......  For upgrades to the            292,200
                                   YWCA's Bringing It
                                   Home supportive
                                   housing project
                                   for victims of
                                   domestic violence.
YWCA Southeastern Massachusetts,  For construction of            194,800
 New Bedford, MA.                  a community center
                                   and women's
                                   transitional
                                   housing facility.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $6,000,000 for costs 
associated with section 108 loan guarantees, including 
administrative costs, to subsidize a total loan principal of up 
to $275,000,000, as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed 
the same loan volume with no subsidy.

                       BROWNFIELDS REDEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $17,500,000 for the 
Brownfields Redevelopment program, as opposed to $25,000,000 as 
proposed by the House. The Senate did not propose funding for 
this account.

                  HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides a total of 
$1,825,000,000 for this account, as proposed by the Senate. The 
House proposed $1,995,000,000 for this account.

        SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides $82,000,000 for this 
account, as opposed to $85,000,000, as proposed by the House 
and Senate. Of the total, $27,000,000 is provided for the SHOP 
program and $50,000,000 is provided for the second, third and 
fourth capacity building activities authorized under section 
4(b)(3), of which not less than $5,000,000 may be made 
available for rural capacity building activities. In addition, 
$5,000,000 is provided for capacity building activities 
authorized under sections 6301 through 6305 in Public Law 110-
246.

                       HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $1,865,000,000 for 
Homeless Assistance Grants, as opposed to $1,875,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate and $1,850,000,000 as proposed by the 
House. Of the amount provided, $6,000,000 is proposed for the 
national homeless data analysis project.

                            Housing Programs

                    PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $8,551,525,000 for 
project-based rental assistance activities, as opposed to 
$8,706,328,000 as proposed by the House and $8,100,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement also provides 
an advance appropriation of $393,672,000 for fiscal year 2011. 
The conference agreement provides $8,325,853,000 for contract 
renewals, and not less than $232,000,000 for contract 
administrators, but not to exceed $258,000,000.

                        HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY

      The conference agreement provides $825,000,000 for the 
section 202 program, as opposed to $1,000,000,000 as proposed 
by the House and $785,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement provides that up to $40,000,000 may be 
used for the conversion of 202 units to assisted living 
facilities, as opposed to $25,000,000 as proposed by the House 
and Senate.

                 HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

      The conference agreement provides $300,000,000 for the 
Section 811 program, as opposed to $350,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and $265,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                     HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $87,500,000 for Housing 
Counseling Assistance, as opposed to $75,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and $100,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement provides that not less than 
$13,500,000 of the funding provided be awarded to HUD-certified 
counseling agencies in areas with the highest rates of 
foreclosure as proposed by the Senate. The conferees expect HUD 
to work with the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation in 
administering the funds for foreclosure prevention counseling.
      The Department is instructed to issue a NOFA for these 
funds within 60 days of enactment of this Act, as proposed by 
the House.

                         ENERGY INNOVATION FUND

      The conference agreement provides $50,000,000 for the 
Energy Innovation Fund for single family and multifamily 
mortgage pilot programs, as proposed by the House. The Senate 
proposed $75,000,000 for this account. The conference agreement 
does not include funding for the Local Initiatives Fund as 
proposed by the Senate. The conferees are concerned that this 
would be duplicative of other Federal programs, but would 
consider this proposal in the future if the unique role of HUD 
is better justified.

                    OTHER ASSISTED HOUSING PROGRAMS

                       RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $40,000,000 for Section 
236 payments to State-aided, non-insured projects, as proposed 
by the House and Senate.

                            RENT SUPPLEMENT

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement rescinds $72,036,000 from the 
Rent Supplement account, as opposed to $27,600,000, as proposed 
by the House and Senate.

            PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES TRUST FUND

      The conference agreement provides $16,000,000 for 
authorized activities, of which $7,000,000 is to be derived 
from the Manufactured Housing Fees Trust Fund, as proposed by 
the House and Senate.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                      (INCLUDING TRANFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement establishes a limitation of 
$400,000,000,000 on commitments to guarantee single-family 
loans during fiscal year 2010, as proposed by the House and 
Senate. The conferees continue the Home Equity Conversion 
Mortgage (HECM) program, but provide no subsidy for this 
program as proposed by the House.

                GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement establishes a $15,000,000,000 
limitation on multifamily and specialized loan guarantees 
during fiscal year 2010, as proposed by the House and Senate.

                Government National Mortgage Association

GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement includes up to $500,000,000,000 
for new commitments, as proposed by the House and Senate.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY

      The conference agreement provides $48,000,000 for 
research and technology, as proposed by the Senate. The House 
proposed $50,000,000 for this account.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement provides $72,000,000 for this 
program, as proposed by the House and Senate. Of this amount, 
$42,500,000 is for the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) 
and $29,500,000 is for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program 
(FHIP).
      The conferees do not propose a separate set-aside for 
work on mortgage rescue scams as proposed by the Senate since 
these activities are already being funded as part of the 
program.
      The conference agreement includes $500,000 to continue 
the translation and promotion of materials to assist persons 
with limited English proficiency, as proposed by the Senate.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $140,000,000 for the 
Lead Hazard Reduction program, as proposed by the House and 
Senate. Of this amount, the conference agreement includes 
$48,000,000 for areas with the highest lead abatement needs, as 
proposed by the Senate.

                     Management and Administration

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $200,000,000 for the 
Working Capital Fund, as proposed by the House and Senate.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $125,000,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General, as opposed to $120,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $126,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement directs the Inspector General to 
use the $5,000,000 increase for audits, investigations and 
personnel costs related to the Office's Federal Housing 
Administration and mortgage-fraud oversight activities.

                       TRANSFORMATION INITIATIVE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $20,000,000 for 
combating mortgage fraud through the Transformation Initiative 
(TI), as proposed by the House and Senate, as well as the 
authority to transfer up to 1 percent of funds from specified 
accounts within the Department, similar to language proposed by 
the House and Senate. The Secretary is required to submit a 
plan to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
approval detailing how the funding will be allocated among the 
various activities authorized under this initiative.
      Of the funds transferred for the TI, not less than 
$80,000,000 and not more than $180,000,000 is for the 
modernization of the Department's legacy information technology 
systems. The conference agreement directs HUD to submit an 
information technology spending plan, and for GAO to evaluate 
HUD's modernization plan and monitor the Department's progress 
in meeting its goals.
      Of the funds transferred, not less than $45,000,000 is 
for technical assistance. Funding is also available for 
research, evaluations and demonstrations. The conferees direct 
HUD to conduct an evaluation of the Moving to Work 
demonstration program, to be completed by August 31, 2010.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

      Section 201 splits overpayments evenly between Treasury 
and State HFAs, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 202 precludes the use of funds to prosecute or 
investigate legal activities under the Fair Housing Act, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 203 continues language to correct anomalies for 
HOPWA and specifies jurisdictions in New York and New Jersey 
and uses three year average, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 204 requires that funds be subject to competition 
unless specified otherwise in statute, as proposed by the House 
and Senate.
      Section 205 allows HUD to use funds for services or 
facilities of GNMA and Fannie Mae, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 206 requires HUD to comport with the budget 
estimates except as otherwise provided in this Act or through 
an approved reprogramming, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 207 provides authorization for HUD corporations 
to utilize funds under certain conditions and restrictions, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 208 requires a report on unexpended balances each 
quarter, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 209 specifies the distribution of AIDS funds to 
New Jersey and North Carolina, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 210 requires that the Administration's budget and 
the Department's budget justifications for fiscal year 2011 
shall be submitted in the identical account and sub-account 
structure provided in this Act, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 211 exempts PHA Boards in Alaska, Iowa, and 
Mississippi and the County of Los Angeles from the public 
housing resident representation requirement, as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 212 authorizes HUD to transfer debt and use 
agreements from an obsolete project to a viable project, 
provided that no additional costs are incurred, and other 
conditions are met, similar to language proposed by the House 
and Senate.
      Section 213 distributes 2009 Native American Housing 
Block grant funds to the same Native Alaskan recipients as 
2005, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 214 prohibits the IG from changing the basis on 
which the audit of GNMA is conducted, as proposed by the House 
and Senate.
      Section 215 sets forth requirements for eligibility for 
Section 8 voucher assistance, and includes a consideration for 
persons with disabilities, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 216 authorizes the Secretary to insure mortgages 
under Section 255 of the National Housing Act, as proposed by 
the House and Senate.
      Section 217 instructs HUD on managing and disposing of 
any multifamily property that is owned by HUD, as proposed by 
the House and Senate.
      Section 218 authorizes the Secretary to waive certain 
requirements on adjusted income for certain assisted living 
projects for counties in Michigan, as proposed by the House.
      Section 219 provides that the Secretary shall report 
quarterly on HUD's use of all sole source contracts, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 220 allows the recipient of a section 202 grant 
to establish a single-asset nonprofit entity to own the project 
and may lend the grant funds to such entity, as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 221 provides that amounts provided under the 
Section 108 loan guarantee program may be used to guarantee 
notes or other obligations issued by any State on behalf of 
non-entitlement communities in the State, and that regulations 
shall be promulgated within 60 days of enactment, as proposed 
by the House and Senate.
      Section 222 amends section 24 of the U.S Housing Act by 
extending the HOPE VI program through September 30, 2010, as 
proposed by the House and similar to language proposed by the 
Senate.
      Section 223 allows PHAs that own and operate 400 units or 
fewer of public housing to be exempt from asset management 
requirements, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 224 restricts the Secretary from imposing any 
requirement or guideline relating to asset management that 
restricts or limits the use of capital funds for central office 
costs, up to the limit established in QWHRA, as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 225 directs that no employee shall be designated 
as an allotment holder unless the CFO determines that they have 
received training, and that the CFO shall ensure that trained 
allotment holders are designated within 90 days of enactment, 
as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 226 requires that the Secretary shall report 
quarterly on the status of all Project-Based Section 8 housing, 
as proposed by the Senate.
      Section 227 provides that funding for indemnities is 
limited to non-programmatic litigation, as proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      Section 228 provides that the Secretary shall publish all 
NOFAs on the Internet, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 229 allows refinancing of certain section 202 
loans, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 230 makes reforms to the Federal Surplus Property 
Program for the homeless, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      Section 231 authorizes the Secretary to transfer up to 5 
percent of funds among the accounts appropriated under the 
title ``Personnel Compensation and Benefits,'' as proposed by 
the House and Senate.
      Section 232 allows the Secretary to increase the 
aggregate number of MTW agencies by three PHAs, as proposed by 
the Senate.
      Section 233 allows HUD to consider industry standard 
appraisal practices, including the cost of repairs when 
determining market value, as proposed by the Senate.
      Section 234 allows the Disaster Housing Assistance 
Programs to be considered a program of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development for the purpose of income 
verifications and matching, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      Section 235 directs HUD to report on the number of 
government-owned residential homes in its portfolio, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Section 236 waives the match requirement for CDBG 
disaster funds, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a Senate 
provision regarding the use of $200,000,000 for PHAs 
experiencing a shortfall of FY09 funds, due to the fact that 
all necessary funds have been allocated to relieve this 
shortfall. The conferees direct the Department to return all 
funds not used for this purpose to the Tenant-Based Rental 
Assistance renewal account and allocate such funds pursuant to 
the formula allocation immediately.

                      TITLE III--RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $7,300,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Access Board, instead of 
$7,200,000 as proposed by the House and $7,400,000 as proposed 
by the Senate. The funds provided over the budget request are 
for managing expanded responsibilities, including increased 
collaboration with other federal agencies, acceleration of the 
rule-making process, and the development of training and 
technical assistance materials and tools.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $24,135,000 for the 
salaries and benefits of the Federal Maritime Commission, 
instead of $23,712,000 as proposed by the House and $24,558,000 
as proposed by the Senate. Of the funds provided, not more than 
$300,000 can be used for performance awards.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $19,000,000 for 
Amtrak's Office of the Inspector General (Amtrak OIG) as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The agreement 
requires Amtrak OIG to submit a comprehensive budget 
justification for fiscal year 2011 in similar format and 
substance to those submitted by other agencies of the federal 
government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $98,050,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the National Transportation Safety 
Board (NTSB), instead of $99,200,000 as proposed by the House 
and $96,900,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of this amount, no 
more than $2,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses, as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes bill language, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate, which directs the 
NTSB to reimburse the Department of Transportation's Inspector 
General up to $100,000 for costs associated with the annual 
audit of the NTSB's financial statements.
      Included within this appropriation, the conferees provide 
a one-time increase of $2,416,000 to pay for moving costs 
associated with the expiring headquarters lease, and bill 
language is included that makes these funds available until 
September 30, 2011, as proposed by the Senate. The conferees 
note that this funding should not be considered as part of the 
agency's base funding level for future budget requests. The 
conference agreement also includes a one-time increase of 
$800,000 for equipment to modernize the NTSB's data recorder 
laboratory, instead of $500,000 as proposed by the House and 
$1,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Of the funds provided, the conferees include $2,350,000 
to fund 11 additional personnel in the agency's most critical 
safety areas of highways, pipelines, railroads, research and 
engineering, and aviation, instead of $6,716,000 for 32 
additional staff as proposed by the House. Consistent with the 
House language, the conferees prohibit these funds from being 
used for the NTSB Academy.
      The conference agreement includes $500,000 to fund up to 
3 additional staff positions and the associated training 
activities related to providing assistance to the families of 
rail passenger accidents as required by the Rail Safety 
Improvement Act of 2008, as proposed by the Senate.
      Language, modified slightly from previous years as 
proposed by the House, is included in the bill to ensure that 
the NTSB can satisfy its contractual obligations and use its 
fiscal year 2010 appropriation to make the lease payments for 
the Academy.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION

      The conference agreement provides $233,000,000 for the 
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, as opposed to 
$196,800,000 as proposed by the House and $243,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $35,000,000 for capital 
grants for the rehabilitation of affordable housing similar to 
language proposed by the Senate. The agreement also includes 
$65,000,000 for the National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling 
program as proposed by the Senate instead of $63,800,000 as 
proposed by the House.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $2,450,000, as opposed 
to $2,400,000 as proposed by the House and $2,680,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees reiterate direction included in the Senate 
report to better coordinate the delivery of housing and 
education services for children at risk of homelessness, 
including conducting joint training.

                 TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS ACT

      Section 401 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate requiring pay raises to be funded within 
appropriated levels in this Act or previous Appropriations 
Acts.
      Section 402 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate prohibiting pay and other expenses for 
non-Federal parties in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings 
funded in this Act.
      Section 403 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate prohibiting obligations beyond the current 
fiscal year and prohibits transfers of funds unless expressly 
so provided herein.
      Section 404 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate requiring consulting service expenditures 
of public record in procurement contracts.
      Section 405 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate specifying reprogramming procedures by 
subjecting the establishment of new offices and reorganizations 
to the reprogramming process.
      Section 406 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate providing that fifty percent of 
unobligated balances may remain available for certain purposes.
      Section 407 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate requiring agencies and departments funded 
herein to report on sole source contracts.
      Section 408 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate prohibiting Federal training not directly 
related to the performance of official duties.
      Section 409 continues the provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that prohibits funds from being used for 
any project that seeks to use the power of eminent domain 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use.
      Section 410 continues a provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that denies the transfer of funds made 
available in this Act to any instrumentality of the United 
States Government except as authorized by this Act or any other 
Appropriations Act.
      Section 411 continues a provision as proposed by the 
House and the Senate that prohibits funds in this Act from 
being used to permanently replace an employee intent on 
returning to his past occupation after completion of military 
service.
      Section 412 modifies a provision as proposed by the House 
and the Senate that prohibits funds in this Act from being used 
unless the expenditure is in compliance with the Buy American 
Act.
      Section 413 modifies a provision as proposed by the House 
and the Senate that prohibits funds from being appropriated or 
made available to any person or entity that has been found to 
violate the Buy American Act.
      Section 414 prohibits funds for first-class airline 
accommodations in contravention of section 301-10.122 and 301-
10.123 of title 41 CFR as proposed by the House.
      Section 415 prohibits funds from being used to purchase 
light bulbs for an office building unless, to the extent 
practicable, the light bulb has an Energy Star or Federal 
Energy Management Program designation as proposed by the House.
      Section 416 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
regarding the public disclosure of reports requested by the 
Congress unless security or other sensitive issues are 
involved.
      Section 417 prohibits funds from being used to establish, 
issue, implement, administer or enforce any prohibition or 
restriction on occupancy preference for veterans in HUD 
facilities located/leased on VA property as proposed by the 
House.
      Section 418 modifies a provision proposed by the Senate 
which prohibits funds in this Act or any prior Act from going 
to the group ACORN or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, or 
allied organizations.
      Section 419 contains a new provision that pertains to 
for-profit projects in the House report.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
proposed by the House prohibiting Amtrak funds from being used 
to provide free alcohol. The conferees understand that Amtrak 
funds are not used for this purpose.
      The conference agreement does not include a House or 
Senate provision regarding the community service requirement in 
public housing. Community service requirements are governed by 
current law.
      The conference agreement does not include a Senate 
provision requiring all departments, agencies, or Federal 
entities funded in the Act to notify the Committees on 
Appropriations 7 days in advance of any announcement of a new 
program authority. The conferees have included this requirement 
earlier in this explanatory statement.

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Following is a list of congressional earmarks and 
congressionally directed spending items (as defined in clause 9 
of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, respectively) 
included in the conference report or the accompanying joint 
statement of managers, along with the name of each Senator, 
House Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who submitted 
a request to the Committee of jurisdiction for each item so 
identified. Neither the conference report nor the joint 
statement of managers contains any limited tax benefits or 
limited tariff benefits as defined in the applicable House or 
Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of rule XXI of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives, neither the conference report 
nor the joint statement of managers contains any congressional 
earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits that 
were not (1) committed to the conference committee by either 
House or (2) in a report of a committee of either House on this 
bill or on a companion measure.

                                                                                  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                Requester(s)
                      Agency                                       Account                              Project                  Amount    -----------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                              Administration        Senate            House
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Broomfield, CO                       $4,632,607  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Champaign, IL                        $8,368,553  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Cleveland, OH                        $5,095,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Dayton, OH                           $1,121,654  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Fort Lauderdale, FL                  $8,951,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Gulfport, MS                         $5,642,940  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Houston, TX                          $8,990,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Islip, NY                            $1,309,823  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Kalamazoo,MI                         $6,992,500  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Kona, HI                             $3,160,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         LaGuardia, NY                        $1,406,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Las Cruces, NM                         $100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Las Vegas, NV                       $71,415,552  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Memphis, TN                          $3,821,375  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Missoula, MT                           $932,200  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         New York, NY                         $6,379,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Pensacola, FL                        $1,924,610  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Reno, NV                             $1,301,742  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         San Francisco, CA                   $21,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         Traverse City, MI                    $3,501,458  The President      Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Terminal Air Traffic Facilities         West Palm Beach, FL                  $1,508,455  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)              Facilities and Equipment                Seattle-Tacoma International         $4,000,000  The President
                                                                                            Airport--ALSF2 at runway end
                                                                                            16C, Seattle, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Bellevue-Redmond BRT, King           $9,368,193  The President      Murray; Cantwell  Reichert
                                                                                            County, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Central Florida Commuter Rail       $40,000,000  The President
                                                                                            Transit, Orlando, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Central Phoenix/East Valley Light   $61,249,903  The President                        Pastor (AZ);
                                                                                            Rail, Phoenix, AZ                                                                     Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Commuter Rail Improvements,         $37,452,000  The President                        Markey (MA)
                                                                                            Fitchburg, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Dulles Corridor Metrorail Project   $85,000,000  The President      Webb; Warner      Connolly (VA);
                                                                                            Extension to Wiehle Avenue,                                                           Moran (VA);
                                                                                            Washington, DC                                                                        Wolf
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Houston North Corridor LRT,         $75,000,000  The President      Hutchinson        Culberson;
                                                                                            Houston, TX                                                                           Green, Al;
                                                                                                                                                                                  Green, Gene;
                                                                                                                                                                                  Jackson-Lee
                                                                                                                                                                                  (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Houston Southeast Corridor LRT,     $75,000,000  The President      Hutchinson        Green, Gene
                                                                                            Houston, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Hudson-Bergen MOS-2, Northern NJ        $11,039  The President                        Payne
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Largo Metrorail Extension,             $347,000  The President
                                                                                            Washington, DC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Livermore-Amador Route 10 BRT,          $79,900  The President                        Tauscher
                                                                                            Livermore, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Long Island Rail Road East Side    $202,522,853  The President                        Bishop (NY);
                                                                                            Access, New York, NY                                                                  King (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Los Angeles-Wilshire Blvd Bus-      $13,558,474  The President      Feinstein         Watson
                                                                                            Only Lane, Los Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Mason Corridor BRT, Fort Collins,   $49,055,155  The President
                                                                                            CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Metro Express-Airport Way            $2,808,825  The President                        Cardoza;
                                                                                            Corridor BRT Project, San                                                             McNerney
                                                                                            Joaquin, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Metro Gold Line Eastside             $9,582,551  The President      Feinstein         Roybal-Allard
                                                                                            Extension, Los Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Metro Rapid Bus System Gap              $23,326  The President
                                                                                            Closure, Los Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               MetroRapid BRT, Austin, TX          $13,370,204  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Monterey Bay Rapid Transit,          $2,773,038  The President
                                                                                            Monterey, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Mountain Links BRT, Flagstaff, AZ      $681,942  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               NJ Access to the Region's Core     $200,000,000  The President      Lautenberg;       Holt; Pascrell;
                                                                                            (ARC/THE Tunnel), Northern NJ                                       Menendez          Payne; Rothman
                                                                                                                                                                                  (NJ); Sires
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               North Shore LRT Connector,               $6,153  The President
                                                                                            Pittsburgh, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Northstar Corridor Rail,               $711,661  The President      Klobuchar
                                                                                            Minneapolis-Big Lake, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Northwest/Southeast LRT MOS,        $84,124,745  The President      Cornyn;           Johnson, Eddie
                                                                                            Dallas, TX                                                          Hutchinson        Bernice
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Pacific Highway South BRT, King          $6,815  The President      Murray
                                                                                            County, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Ravenswood Line Extension,             $304,744  The President
                                                                                            Chicago, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Roaring Fork Valley, BRT Project,      $810,000  The President                        Salazar
                                                                                            Roaring Fork, CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               RTD West Corridor LRT, Denver, CO   $90,000,000  The President      Bennet; Mark      DeGette;
                                                                                                                                                                Udall             Perlmutter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Salt Lake City-Mid Jordan LRT,      $98,000,000  The President      Bennett; Hatch
                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               San Bernadino, E Street Corridor    $32,370,000  The President                        Baca; Miller,
                                                                                            sbX BRT, San Bernadino, CA                                                            Gary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               San Diego-Mid-City Rapid, San        $2,359,850  The President      Feinstein
                                                                                            Diego, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Second Avenue Subway Phase I, New  $197,182,000  The President                        Maloney
                                                                                            York, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Sound Transit--Central Link          $3,144,294  The President      Murray
                                                                                            Initial Segment, Seattle, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Sound Transit--University Link     $110,000,000  The President      Murray
                                                                                            LRT Extension, Seattle, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               South Corridor I-205/Portland       $74,229,000  The President                        Blumenauer; Wu
                                                                                            Mall LRT, Portland, OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               South Sacramento Corridor Phase     $38,000,000  The President      Feinstein         Matsui
                                                                                            II, Sacramento, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Southeast Corridor LRT, Denver,         $10,312  The President                        DeGette;
                                                                                            CO                                                                                    Perlmutter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Troost Corridor BRT, Kansas City,        $6,022  The President
                                                                                            MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)               Capital Investment Grants               Weber County-Salt Lake City         $80,000,000  The President      Bennett; Hatch    Bishop (UT)
                                                                                            Commuter Rail, Salt Lake City,
                                                                                            UT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                                  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                      Requester(s)
                Agency                                Account                                           Project                               Amount   -----------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                               Senate               House
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Advanced Power Train Systems Integration Research Facility in     $250,000                       Wamp
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                     the National Transportation Research Center, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Earthworks Engineering Research Center--EERC, Iowa State          $500,000  Harkin               Latham
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                     University, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Freight Policy Transportation Institute, WA                       $730,500  Murray
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Great Lakes Maritime Research Institute                           $450,000                       Obey
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Hampton Roads--Crater Multimodal Transportation and               $243,500  Warner               Scott (VA)
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                     Distribution Study, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Jet Engine Technology Inspection to Support Continued             $700,000  Harkin               Latham
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                     Airworthiness--JET, Iowa State University, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Mobility 1st Service                                              $750,000  Levin; Stabenow      Kilpatrick (MI);
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                                                                                                                      Conyers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Northern Lights Express                                           $500,000  Klobuchar            Oberstar
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  University of Kansas Engine Test Cell Upgrade, KS                 $350,000                       Moran (KS)
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Vehicle Research Institute--Advanced Materials Transit Vehicle    $730,500  Murray; Cantwell
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development                     Design, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Transportation (DOT),     Transportation Planning, Research,  Whatcom Smart Trips, WA                                           $730,500  Murray
 Office of the Secretary (OST)           and Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Airport Apron Expansion, Wasilla, AK                              $500,000                       Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Albuquerque International Sunport general aviation aircraft       $275,000                       Heinrich
                                                                             parking ramp replacement, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Alliance Airport runway extension program, TX                     $750,000                       Burgess; Granger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Alpine Airport runway and terminal improvements, TX               $500,000                       Rodriguez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Atmore Airport access road, runway lights, and safety             $475,000                       Bonner
                                                                             imrovements, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Bradford County Airport runway extension, PA                      $250,000                       Carney
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Branch County Memorial Airport green building terminal            $450,000                       Schauer
                                                                             improvements, Coldwater MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Burlington International Airport Taxiway and Apron                $974,000  Leahy
                                                                             Improvements, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Burlington-Alamance County Regional Airport runway and taxiway  $1,000,000                       Coble
                                                                             project, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Chautauqua County Dunkirk Airport runway construction, NY       $1,000,000                       Higgins
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport apron          $500,000  McConnell            Davis (KY)
                                                                             rehabilitation, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Crisp County Airport various improvements, GA                     $300,000                       Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    DeKalb Taylor Municipal Airport Drainage Upgrades, IL             $500,000                       Foster
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Delta Regional Airport airfield runway, taxiway and apron       $1,200,000                       Berry
                                                                             improvements, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Denver International Airport west airfield taxiway                $500,000                       DeGette
                                                                             improvements, CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Des Moines International Airport Runway 13R/31L Land              $500,000  Grassley             Boswell
                                                                             Acquisition, Des Moines, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Detroit International Airport rehabilitate taxiway A and east     $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Conyers
                                                                             end runway, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Devils Lake Regional Runway Improvements, ND                      $487,000  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Eagle River Union Airport Ramp Reconstruction and Expansion,      $871,730  Kohl
                                                                             WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Fairfield County Airport Runway and Taxiway Rehabilitation,SC     $175,000                       Spratt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Fernandina Beach Municipal Airport taxiway improvements, FL     $1,000,000                       Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Florence Regional Airport drainage and concourse improvements,    $500,000                       Clyburn
                                                                             SC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Floyd Bennett Memorial/Warren County Airport Improvements, NY     $850,000                       Murphy (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Gainesville-Alachua Airport general aviation apron and taxiway    $750,000                       Brown, Corrine
                                                                             A rehabilitation, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Glynn County Airport airfield and taxiway improvements, GA      $1,100,000                       Kingston
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Golden Triangle Regional Airport runway extension, MS           $2,000,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Grand Forks International Airport Terminal Replacement, Grand   $2,441,500  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
                                                                             Forks, ND
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Grand Junction Regional Airport Commercial Apron                  $500,000                       Salazar
                                                                             Rehabilitation, CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Guam International Airport Authority--Terminal Security           $750,000                       Bordallo
                                                                             Enhancements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Gulfport-Biloxi Airport design and construction of taxiways     $2,500,000  Cochran; Wicker
                                                                             and runway extension, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Huntsville Airport Authority air carrier and ramp                 $250,000                       Griffith
                                                                             enhancements, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Imperial County Airport Feasibility Study, Imperial County, CA    $100,000                       Filner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Jackson-Evers International Airport airfield improvements, MS   $2,375,000  Cochran, Wicker      Harper
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Keokuk Municipal Airport rehabilitation and remarking airfield    $300,000  Grassley             Loebsack
                                                                             pavements, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Lamar Municipal Airport new runway construction, MO             $2,750,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Lanett Municipal Airport environmental assessments, land        $5,000,000  Shelby
                                                                             acquisition and runway construction, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Lewiston-Auburn Municipal Airport data collection, preliminary    $500,000                       Michaud
                                                                             design, land acquisition, permitting and environmental
                                                                             assessment, ME
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Los Alamos County Airport runway rehabilitation, NM               $800,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall  Lujan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Louisville International Airport airfield capacity                $750,000  McConnell            Yarmuth
                                                                             improvements, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Mid Delta Regional various runway improvements, MS              $1,000,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Mobile Downtown Airport taxiway A improvements, AL              $1,500,000  Sessions             Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Montgomery County Airport Airfield Pavement Rehabilitation, NC    $500,000                       Kissell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Nashville International Airport reconstruction of a Portion of  $1,500,000  Alexander; Corker
                                                                             2L-20R Runway, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Niagara Falls International Airport Runway 10L-28R Mill and       $925,000  Gillibrand           Lee (NY)
                                                                             Overlay, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Oakland County International Airport Terminal Building,           $730,500  Stabenow; Levin      Rogers (MI)
                                                                             Pontiac, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Oberlin Municipal Airport runway realignment and lengthening      $500,000  Roberts              Moran (KS)
                                                                             project, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Ogden-Hinckley Airport runway improvements, UT                    $500,000  Bennett; Hatch       Bishop (UT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Oxford-Henderson Airport Enhancement Project, NC                  $300,000                       Butterfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Pellston Regional Airport snow removal and aircraft rescue and    $800,000                       Stupak
                                                                             firefighting building improvements, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Perry-Foley Airport Resurfacing of Primary Runway 18/36, FL     $1,000,000                       Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Peter Prince Airport, Santa Rosa County, runway hold bays         $500,000                       Miller (FL)
                                                                             construction, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport Taxiway Alpha,         $2,000,000                       Pastor (AZ)
                                                                             Phoenix, AZ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Quad Cities International Airport Runway Reconstruction and       $487,000  Durbin
                                                                             Extension, Moline, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Richard Downing Airport runway extension, OH                      $450,000                       Space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Richard Russell Regional Airport (Floyd County, GA) midfield      $250,000  Isakson              Gingrey (GA)
                                                                             taxiway improvements, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Richmond County Airport Runway Safety Area Project, NC            $400,000                       Kissell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    San Marcos Municipal Airport apron construction, TX             $1,200,000  Hutchison            Doggett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Sandusky County Regional Airport (S24) taxiway project, OH        $500,000                       Latta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    SC-TAC Airport taxiway B improvements, SC                         $750,000  Graham (SC)          Inglis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Sheboygan County Memorial Airport Reconstruction (Runway 13/31    $925,300  Kohl                 Petri
                                                                             and Taxiways F1 and F2), WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Sikeston Memorial Municipal Airport for the relocation and      $1,700,000  Bond
                                                                             construction of a taxiway, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    South Texas International Airport runway and fire safefy          $500,000                       Hinojosa
                                                                             improvements, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Southern Illinois Airport Aircraft Rescue Firefighting            $779,200  Durbin
                                                                             Building Construction,Carbondale, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    St. Clair County International Airport runway extension, MI       $500,000                       Miller (MI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport runway and      $1,000,000                       Young (FL)
                                                                             taxiway improvements, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Stinson Airport runway, signage, lighting and drainage          $1,200,000                       Rodriguez
                                                                             improvements, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Texarkana Regional Airport fire station project, TX               $750,000                       Hall (TX); Ross
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Toledo Express Airport Improvements, OH                           $500,000                       Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Tulsa International Airport, Memorial Drive and waterline         $500,000                       Sullivan
                                                                             project, OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Twin County Airport obstruction removal and runway safety         $500,000                       Boucher
                                                                             improvement, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Virginia Tech Airport runway rehabilitiation, VA                  $500,000                       Boucher
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Washington County Airport runway 9/27 overlay project, PA         $500,000  Specter              Murphy, Tim
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Waterbury-Oxford Airport runway protection zone improvements,     $500,000                       Murphy (CT)
                                                                             CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport intermoal center      $500,000  Specter              Kanjorski
                                                                             design/construction, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   AIP--Airport Improvement Program    Wittman Regional Airport runway project, Oshkosh, WI              $950,000  Kohl                 Petri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Runway 36L Glide Slope, Napa County Airport, CA                   $280,000                       Thompson (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Arlington Municipal Airport--Medium Approach Lighting System      $637,000  Hutchison            Barton (TX)
                                                                             (MALSR ) installation, Arlington, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Castle Airport Instrument Landing System, CA                      $520,000                       Cardoza
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Hazard-Perry County Airport Instrument Landing System, Hazard,    $500,000                       Rogers (KY)
                                                                             KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Juneau International Airport MALSR Lighting, AK                 $1,000,000  Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Kinston Regional Jetport ILS Upgrade, NC                          $500,000  Hagan                Butterfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Lighting Improvements, Southern Vermont Regional Airport,         $925,000  Leahy                Welch
                                                                             North Clarendon, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       NextGen Integrated Airport Project, FL                            $827,900  Bill Nelson;
                                                                                                                                                         Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Piedmont Triad International Airport Instrument Landing         $1,250,000  Burr
                                                                             System, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       Reno-Tahoe International Airport, Approach Surveillance Radar     $263,000  Reid                 Heller
                                                                             (ASR-11), Reno, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   F&E--Facilities and Equipment       TOPIA--Mobile Object Infrastructure Technology, WA              $1,948,000  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Operations                          Alien Species Action Plan Inspection Facility, HI                 $876,600  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Operations                          St. Louis University Center for Aviation Safety Research, MO    $2,000,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Research (FAA)                      Advanced Materials in Transport Aircraft Structures, WA           $487,000  Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Research (FAA)                      Center for Commercial Space Transportation, FL                    $974,000  Bill Nelson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Research (FAA)                      National Institute for Aviation Research (NAIR)                   $500,000  Brownback; Roberts   Tiahrt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Research (FAA)                      National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR)                 $1,500,000  Brownback; Roberts   Tiahrt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Terminal Air Traffic Facilities     Air Traffic Control Facility, Nantucket Memorial Airport, MA    $1,000,000  Kennedy; Kerry;
                                                                                                                                                         Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   Terminal Air Traffic Facilities     Air Traffic Control Facility, Palm Springs International        $2,000,000  Boxer; Feinstein     Bono Mack
                                                                             Airport, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Capitol Street Renaissance Project--Transportation              $1,150,000  Cochran; Wicker
                                         Development Program                 Improvements, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Chalk Bluff Road, Clay County, AR                               $1,100,000                       Berry
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Chouteau Parkway Conceptual Design, MO                            $400,000                       Graves
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Clearview at Earhart Drainage, LA                                 $400,000  Landrieu             Scalise
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       I-20 Lincoln Parish, Ruston, LA                                   $500,000  Landrieu             Alexander
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Interstate 55 Interchange Lighting, MS                            $600,000  Cochran; Wicker
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Interstate-55 Interchange, MO                                   $1,000,000  Bond
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Jonestown Bypass, MS                                            $1,250,000  Cochran; Wicker
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       LA 1088 Interchange, LA                                           $400,000  Landrieu             Scalise
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Master Planning for I-10, LA                                      $400,000  Landrieu             Cao
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       New Interchange, US 61 @ S. Lincoln Dr, Troy, MO                  $400,000                       Akin
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Poplar Bluff Industrial Park Bypass, MO                         $2,000,000  Bond
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Route 34, MO                                                    $1,150,000  Bond
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Southeast Arkansas Intermodal Facility                            $475,000  Pryor; Lincoln       Ross
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Delta Regional Transportation       Statesman Boulevard and Trail, MS                               $1,500,000  Cochran
                                         Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Ashtabula City Port Authority, OH                                 $500,000                       LaTourette
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Berkeley/Albany to San Francisco Ferry Service, CA              $1,000,000  Feinstein            Pelosi; Lee (CA)
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Glen Cove Ferry Terminal, NY                                    $1,000,000                       King (NY)
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Long Branch Pier and Ferry Terminal, NJ                           $300,000                       Pallone
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Mayport Ferry Rehabilitation, Jacksonville, FL                    $500,000                       Crenshaw
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        New Vessel Program--Propulsion System Acquisition, WA           $2,922,000  Murray; Cantwell     Inslee; Larsen
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Ocean Beach Ferry Terminal Enhancement, NY                        $600,000                       Israel
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Reconstruction of the Bayshore Ferry Terminal Bulkhead,           $250,000                       Israel
                                         Facilities                          Saltaire, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FB--Ferry Boats and Terminal        Refurbished Passenger Ferry, VI                                   $200,000                       Christensen
                                         Facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     116th Street NE Interchange Improvements Project, Tulalip         $800,000  Murray               Larsen (WA)
                                         Highways)                           Tribes, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Arizona Forest Highway 39, Tucson, AZ                           $1,200,000                       Giffords
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Asphalt Paving on road to Crow Creek Tribal Schools Stephan       $500,000  Johnson              Herseth Sandlin
                                         Highways)                           Campus, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Baltimore Washington Parkway Feasibility Study, MD              $1,000,000                       Ruppersberger
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Boulder City Bypass, NV                                           $981,800  Reid                 Titus
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     BRAC-Related Improvements, Anne Arundel County, MD              $2,753,200  Mikulski; Cardin     Sarbanes;
                                         Highways)                                                                                                                            Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     BRAC-Related Improvements, Harford County, MD                   $2,881,450  Mikulski; Cardin     Bartlett; Kratovil;
                                         Highways)                                                                                                                            Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     BRAC-Related Improvements, Montgomery County, MD                $4,400,000  Mikulski; Cardin     Van Hollen;
                                         Highways)                                                                                                                            Bartlett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     BRAC-Related Improvements, Prince George's County, MD           $2,496,700  Mikulski; Cardin     Edwards (MD)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     C & D Canal Trail Improvements, DE                              $1,000,000  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge overlook park parking       $298,000                       Bachus
                                         Highways)                           lot and turn lanes, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Cheaha State Park Talladega National Forest Tourism Access, AL    $500,000                       Rogers (AL)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Choctaw Lake-Bluff Lake Route, MS                               $1,500,000  Cochran
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Chula Vista Nature Center Road Re-Pavement Project, Chula         $500,000                       Filner
                                         Highways)                           Vista, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     CR 97, Nicolls Road Highway Improvements, NY                      $389,600  Gillibrand           Bishop (NY)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Crack sealing and chip seal on BIA #7 Rosebud to Highway 18       $150,000                       Herseth Sandlin
                                         Highways)                           Junction, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Doyle Drive Replacement, San Francisco, CA                      $3,704,500  Feinstein; Boxer     Pelosi
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Federal Lands Improvement Project, HI                           $3,896,000  Inouye
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     FH-24, Banks to Lowman, ID                                      $2,000,000                       Simpson
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Flight 93 National Memorial, Transportation Improvements,       $4,000,000  Specter; Casey       Shuster; Olver
                                         Highways)                           Somerset , PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Forest Highway 171 Widening, Butte County, CA                   $2,450,000  Boxer                Herger
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Forest Road Upgrade, MS                                           $500,000  Wicker
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Fort Baker Transportation Improvements, CA                        $750,000                       Woolsey
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Fort Drum Connector Road, NY                                    $1,077,000  Gillibrand           McHugh
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Golden Gate National Parks--Park Access, Transit and Trails,      $500,000                       Pelosi
                                         Highways)                           CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway Missing Link--Phase I:         $500,000  Klobuchar            Ellison
                                         Highways)                           Design, Acquistions, Environmental Remediation, Construction,
                                                                             MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Highway 140, Lake County, OR                                    $1,000,000  Merkley; Wyden       Walden
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Hoover Dam Bypass Bridge, AZ                                    $5,250,000  Kyl                  Franks (AZ)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     I-15/Devore Interchange Improvements, San Bernardino County,    $2,000,000  Feinstein            Dreier
                                         Highways)                           CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Improvements to US 491, Navajo Nation, NM                         $500,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall  Lujan
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Jacksonville National Cemetery Access Road, FL                    $800,000                       Crenshaw
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Kalispel Tribe Road Development from Sprague Avenue to US 2,    $1,266,200  Murray
                                         Highways)                           WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Martin Road project, City of Huntsville, AL                       $850,000  Sessions             Griffith; Aderholt
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Navajo Route 42, Oljeto Road Resurfacing Project, UT            $1,000,000  Bennett; Hatch
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Needles Highway in Needles, San Bernardino County, CA           $1,000,000                       Lewis (CA)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     New Frederick Douglass Memorial Bridge Design and Construction  $2,300,000                       Hoyer; Norton
                                         Highways)                           Project, DC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Pedestrian Safety Improvements at Suquamish Way and Division      $600,000  Murray               Inslee
                                         Highways)                           Streets, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Pyramid Highway Corridor, NV                                    $1,084,400  Reid; Ensign
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Reconstruction of BIA Route 7 on the Turtle Mountain            $1,168,800  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
                                         Highways)                           Reservation, ND
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Repairs to Waterville Road, TN                                    $200,000  Alexander; Corker
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     San Juan County Road 370, UT                                    $1,000,000                       Matheson
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     SD Highway 63 Resurfacing, SD                                   $3,000,000  Thune
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Sequoyah Wildlife Refuge Road Paving, Vian, OK                    $800,000                       Boren
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Sharpes Ferry Bridge, FL                                        $1,200,000  Bill Nelson          Grayson
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Snake Road Improvement Project, Seminole Big Cypress              $500,000  Bill Nelson          Hastings (FL)
                                         Highways)                           Reservation, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Southern Nevada Beltway Interchanges, NV                        $3,302,250  Reid; Ensign         Berkley; Titus
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     SR-160 Nevada Expansion, NV                                     $2,217,500  Reid; Ensign
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Standing Rock Sioux Tribe--Community Streets Project--Bear        $588,950  Johnson              Herseth Sandlin
                                         Highways)                           Soldier South, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Stones River National Battlefield Tour Route, TN                $1,500,000                       Gordon (TN)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Tamiami Trail (U.S. 41) Safety Improvements, Miami, FL          $1,750,000                       Diaz-Balart, Mario;
                                         Highways)                                                                                                                            Meek (FL);
                                                                                                                                                                              Hastings (FL);
                                                                                                                                                                              Wasserman Schultz;
                                                                                                                                                                              Buchanan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Tohono O'odham Nation Highway Improvements, Sells, AZ             $500,000                       Grijalva
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Trail Creek Highway/Forest Highway 66 Reconstruction, Mackay,   $3,750,000                       Simpson
                                         Highways)                           ID
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     US 40 Northwest Chipseal, CO                                      $750,000                       Salazar
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     US 50 State Realignment, Douglas County, NV                     $1,000,000  Reid                 Heller
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     US Highway 101 Corridor Improvement Project, WA                 $1,000,000  Murray               Dicks
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     West River Trail Bridge, VT                                       $165,580  Sanders
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   FL--Federal lands (Public Lands     Wolf Trap Performing Arts Multi-Use Trail, Fairfax, VA            $250,000                       Moran (VA)
                                         Highways)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-85 Interchange modifications at Pleasant Hill Road, Gwinnett  $1,000,000                       Linder
                                         Discretionary                       County, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          24th Street/I-15 Interchange, UT                                $2,000,000  Bennett; Hatch       Bishop (UT)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          79th Street/Stony Island/South Chicago Reconstruction, IL         $900,000                       Rush
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Advanced Traffic Management on I-91 Corridor, MA                $1,500,000                       Olver
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Bob Hope/I-10 Interchange Project, CA                             $500,000                       Bono Mack
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Cherry Avenue/I-10 Interchange, County of San Bernardino, CA      $750,000                       Baca
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Construction of a new interchange on I-80 at Brisbin Road,        $900,000                       Halvorson
                                         Discretionary                       Morris, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Expansion of Interstate 69, TX                                    $500,000  Hutchison            Olson; Brady (TX);
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                                        Hall (TX); Green,
                                                                                                                                                                              Al; Jackson-Lee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-10 at Grove Avenue and Fourth Street Interchange and Grove      $950,000                       Baca
                                         Discretionary                       Avenue Corridor Project, City of Ontario, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-10 Interchange at Pecue Lane, LA                              $1,100,000  Vitter; Landrieu
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-12 Interchange at LA-16, Denham Springs, LA                     $633,100  Landrieu
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-15 Corridor of the Future, NV                                   $974,000  Reid; Ensign         Berkley
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-15 Custer Avenue Interchange, MT                              $2,922,000  Tester; Baucus
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-15/Base Line Road Interchange Improvements, Rancho              $750,000                       Dreier
                                         Discretionary                       Cucamonga, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-215/University Parkway Interchange in San Bernardino, San       $750,000                       Lewis (CA)
                                         Discretionary                       Bernardino County, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-255 and Telegraph Road Landscape Improvements, MO               $300,000                       Carnahan
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-277 Access Corridor (S. Main St.) Phase 2, Akron, OH            $500,000                       Sutton
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-29 Fargo North to Sheyenne, ND                                $1,358,750  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-35 widening from SH-9 West to North of Main Street, OK          $750,000                       Cole
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-40 Improvements, Durham and Wake County, NC                   $2,000,000                       Price (NC)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-471 Repair Between I-275 and Ohio River, Campbell County, KY    $500,000                       Davis (KY)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-480/Tiedeman Road Interchange Modification, OH                  $800,000  Brown                Kucinich
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-5 Columbia River Crossing, OR                                 $1,000,000  Murray; Wyden;       Blumenauer;
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                   Merkley              Schrader
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-5 Columbia River Crossing, WA                                 $1,948,000  Murray; Wyden;       Baird
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                   Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-580 Corridor Improvements, CA                                 $1,000,000                       Tauscher; McNerney
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-70 Central Park Boulevard Stapleton Interchange, CO           $1,000,000                       DeGette
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-71/SR 665 Interchange Improvements, Grove City, OH            $1,550,000                       Kilroy
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-74 Bridge Corridor Project, Moline, IL                        $1,200,000                       Hare
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-805 Managed Lanes, San Diego, CA                                $500,000  Boxer                Davis (CA)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-85 Widening in Davidson and Rowan Counties, NC                $1,700,000  Burr                 Watt
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-85 Widening Project, NC                                       $1,400,000  Burr                 Kissell; Watt
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-85/Jimmy Carter Boulevard Bridge Replacement, Gwinnett          $500,000  Chambliss            Johnson (GA)
                                         Discretionary                       County, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-90 Belgrade East Interchange, MT                              $1,461,000  Tester; Baucus       Rehberg
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-95 Interchange at Yamato Road and Spanish River Boulevard     $1,000,000  Bill Nelson          Klein (FL); Wexler
                                         Discretionary                       Project, City of Boca Raton, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-95 Interchange with SR 202 (Butler Boulevard), FL             $1,000,000  Martinez
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-95 Pawtucket River Bridge Replacement, RI                     $2,266,200  Reed; Whitehouse     Langevin; Kennedy
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          I-95/US 301 Interchange, SC                                     $1,700,000  Graham (SC)          Clyburn
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          IH-35W Congestion Relief, Fort Worth, TX                        $2,000,000  Hutchison; Cornyn    Burgess; Granger
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Improvements to I-75 Interchange at Griffin Road, Southwest     $1,000,000                       Wasserman Schultz
                                         Discretionary                       Ranches, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Improvements to I-81, Franklin County, PA                       $1,358,750  Specter; Casey       Shuster
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interchange at I-5 and French Camp Road, and Arch-Sperry Road     $800,000  Feinstein            McNerney
                                         Discretionary                       Construction, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 235/US 54 and I-235/Central Avenue Interchange,      $1,000,000  Brownback; Roberts   Tiahrt
                                         Discretionary                       Wichita, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 280 Interchange Improvements, Harrison, NJ           $1,948,000  Menendez;            Sires
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                   Lautenberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 29 Reconstruction and Utility Relocation Project,    $1,500,000  Grassley; Harkin     King (IA)
                                         Discretionary                       IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 40: New Conway South Interchange, AR                   $779,200  Pryor; Lincoln       Snyder
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 430/630: Interchange Modification, AR                $3,435,000  Pryor; Lincoln       Snyder
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 49 North, LA                                           $750,000  Landrieu             Fleming
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 540: Fayetteville-North, AR                          $3,435,000  Pryor; Lincoln       Boozman
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 69 Texas Environmental Studies, TX                     $500,000  Hutchison            Brady (TX); Hall
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                                        (TX); Olson;
                                                                                                                                                                              Green, Al; Jackson-
                                                                                                                                                                              Lee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 69, LA                                                 $750,000  Landrieu             Fleming
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 70 Viaduct Realignment, Topeka, KS                   $1,500,000  Brownback; Roberts   Jenkins
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 74 Corridor Construction, IA                         $1,000,000  Harkin               Braley (IA)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 75 Exit 20 redesign and construction, Cleveland, TN  $1,200,000  Alexander            Wamp
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 94 / Brockton Lane Interchange, MN                     $800,000  Klobuchar            Paulsen
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate 94, Madison, WI                                      $1,000,000  Kohl                 Baldwin
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate-20 Interchanges, Parker County, TX                     $500,000                       Granger
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Interstate-95/Fairfax County Parkway Interchange at Newington     $974,000  Webb; Warner         Connolly (VA);
                                         Discretionary                       Road, VA                                                                                         Moran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Kapolei Interchange Complex, HI                                 $3,435,000  Inouye               Hirono; Abercrombie
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Kentucky-Ohio River Bridges Project, KY                         $1,000,000                       Yarmuth
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Latson Road Interchange, Lansing, MI                              $500,000                       Rogers (MI)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Margaret McDermott (I-30) Bridge, TX                            $1,000,000                       Johnson, Eddie
                                         Discretionary                                                                                                                        Bernice
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Marion Road Interchange, SD                                     $1,000,000  Thune
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Meadowood Interchange, NV                                       $1,000,000  Reid                 Heller
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Methuen Rotary Interchange Reconfiguration, Metheun, MA           $900,000                       Tsongas
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Pennsylvania Turnpike-Interstate 95 Interchange, PA               $500,000  Specter              Brady (PA)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Ranchero Road Corridor Project, CA                              $1,000,000                       Lewis (CA)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Safety and Seismic Upgrades to the Shoemaker Bridge, City of    $1,000,000                       Richardson
                                         Discretionary                       Long Beach, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          San Diego Freeway (I-5) Widening and Improvement, CA              $935,000                       Calvert
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          San Diego Freeway (Interstate 405) Improvements, CA               $750,000                       Rohrabacher
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          SR-56 to I-5 Interchange Connector, San Diego, CA               $1,000,000                       Bilbray
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Starr Road Interchange, NV                                      $2,922,000  Reid                 Titus
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Third Army Road/I-75 Interchange Construction, GA                 $750,000  Chambliss; Isakson   Gingrey (GA)
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   IM--Interstate Maintenance          Turnpike Improvement Project: SR-1 & I-95, DE                   $2,018,000  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
                                         Discretionary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   10th Avenue South Corridor Extension, Waverly, IA                 $500,000  Grassley; Harkin     Braley (IA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   21st Street North Railroad Overpass, KS                           $500,000                       Tiahrt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   23/101 Freeway Interchange Project, CA                            $500,000                       Gallegly
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   4th Street Improvement Project, City of Moro, OR                  $123,060  Merkley; Wyden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   53rd Ave. Bridge and Roadway Extension Project, OR                $292,200  Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   55th Street East Grade Separation, ND                           $1,850,600  Conrad; Dorgan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   70th Avenue and Valley Avenue East Corridor Project, WA         $1,614,900  Murray               Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Akron-Cleveland Road Bridge Replacement, OH                       $750,000                       LaTourette
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations, Riverside County, CA   $1,349,000  Boxer                Calvert; Bono Mack
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations, Southern California    $1,349,000  Feinstein            Dreier; Chu
                                                                             Association of Governments, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Alice's Road Extension/Ashworth Road to University Avenue, IA     $950,000  Harkin               Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Alsbury Boulevard Construction, TX                                $700,000                       Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Alton Commons Boulevard Improvements, Hilliard, OH                $500,000                       Kilroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ansonia Riverwalk, CT                                             $800,000                       DeLauro
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Antelope Valley Project Transportation Improvements, NE           $750,000                       Fortenberry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Anvil Block Road Widening, GA                                     $500,000                       Scott (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Appalachian Development Highway System Corridor H, WV           $4,383,000  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Arterial Road and Bridge Improvements, Matanuska-Susitna, AK    $1,000,000  Murkowski; Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Artesia Road Bypass, MS                                         $1,000,000  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ashburton Avenue Widening, Yonkers, NY                            $900,000  Schumer; Gillibrand  Lowey; Engel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Atlanta-Chattanooga-Nashville High-Speed Ground Transportation/   $750,000                       Wamp
                                                                             Maglev Feasibility Study, Chattanooga, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Atlantic Boulevard South, CA                                      $500,000                       Roybal-Allard
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Austin Intelligent Transportation Systems, TX                     $500,000                       Smith (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   AutoTrain Gateway Improvements, Sanford, FL                       $750,000                       Mica; Brown,
                                                                                                                                                                              Corrine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Bear Creek Greenway, Medford, OR                                  $500,000  Merkley; Wyden       Walden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Bergen County Specialized Bus Transit, NJ                         $974,000  Menendez;            Rothman (NJ)
                                                                                                                                                         Lautenberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Berwick Bridge, Somersworth, NH                                   $500,000                       Shea-Porter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Black Eagle Road Reconstruction, MT                               $500,000  Tester; Baucus       Rehberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Blair Bypass--South Corridor, NE                                  $974,000  Ben Nelson           Fortenberry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   B-Line Trail Extension, Bloomington, IN                           $500,000                       Hill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Blue Earth CSAH 12 Extension/TH 14 Interchange, MN                $584,400  Klobuchar            Walz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Bonneville Clark Couplet, NV                                      $487,000  Reid                 Berkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Boot Road Extension Bridge over Brandywine Creek, PA              $500,000                       Gerlach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Bossier Parish Congestion Relief Plan, Bossier Parish, LA         $838,300  Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Bradley Ave/SR-67 Interchange, CA                                 $400,000                       Hunter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Brett Way Extension, OR                                           $292,200  Wyden; Merkley       Walden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Broad Street Parkway/Nashua River Bridge Enhancements, NH         $487,000  Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Broadway and Kansas Avenue Repair Project, KS                     $400,000                       Moran (KS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Broadway Bridge Replacement Project, WA                         $3,116,800  Murray               Larsen (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Brush Creek-Troost Avenue Streetscape Improvements, MO          $1,000,000  Bond                 Cleaver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Building of the Almonaster Bridge New Orleans, LA                 $639,000  Landrieu             Cao
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Byram-Clinton/Norrell Parkway, MS                               $2,750,000  Cochran; Wicker      Thompson (MS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Cambridge-Isanti Bike-Walking Trail, MN                           $400,000                       Oberstar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Cannon AFB BRAC County Road Improvements, NM                      $974,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Cape Girardeau Riverwalk Trail, MO                              $1,600,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Capital Beltway South Side Mobility Study, MD                     $500,000                       Edwards (MD)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Carson City Freeway--Phase II, NV                                 $779,200  Reid                 Heller
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Centerway Arch Bridge and Trail Projects, NY                      $500,000                       Massa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Central City, Trinity River Vision, Fort Worth, TX              $2,500,000  Hutchison; Cornyn    Granger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Cherry Street Railroad Grade Crossings Improvement Project, MA    $600,000                       McGovern
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Church Street Marketplace and Side Streets Improvements, VT       $974,000  Leahy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Doral Street Improvement Project, FL                      $500,000                       Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                                              Lincoln; Diaz-
                                                                                                                                                                              Balart, Mario
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Hialeah Street and Sidewalk Improvements, FL              $500,000                       Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                                              Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Hines Street Rehabilitation Project, OR                   $292,200  Merkley; Wyden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Isanti Pedestrian Bridge over TH 65, MN                 $1,200,000                       Oberstar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Providence Street Paving, RI                              $779,200  Reed; Whitehouse     Kennedy; Langevin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   City of Tuscaloosa Streetscape, AL                              $2,000,000  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Clements Mill Bridge Replacement Project, Franklin County, VA     $950,000                       Perriello
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Coalfields Expressway, WV                                       $1,948,000  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Collins Road Improvements, Cedar Rapids, IA                       $974,000  Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Commerce Crossing Bridge over I-20, Rockdale County, GA           $500,000  Isakson              Johnson (GA); Scott
                                                                                                                                                                              (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Community Transportation Association of America National        $1,400,000                       Olver
                                                                             Joblinks Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Computerized traffic control system, Morgantown, WV             $1,000,000                       Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Construct Four Lane Highway 20 West of U.S. 71, IA                $750,000  Harkin               King (IA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Construction of Four Lane Highway on US 69 in Crawford,         $1,500,000  Brownback
                                                                             Bourbon, and Cherokee Counties, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Construction of the I-278 Environmental Shield, Queens, NY        $700,000                       Crowley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   County D Extension, Hurley, WI                                    $950,000                       Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   County Road R Improvements, Plover, WI                          $1,900,000                       Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Countywide Regional Loop Trail, Mount Clemens, MI               $1,948,000  Stabenow; Levin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Croix Street, Negaunee, MI                                        $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Stupak
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Cross Creek Widening, Tampa, FL                                   $500,000                       Bilirakis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Croton-Harmon Train Station Parking Lot Flood Mitigation and      $700,000                       Hall (NY)
                                                                             Improvement, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Davie Road Upgrade, Davie, FL                                     $500,000                       Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Deck RepairChester Bridge, Perry County, MO                       $500,000                       Emerson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Defense Access Road, MS                                         $1,000,000  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Demolition of Congress Street Bridge, Bridgeport, CT              $500,000                       Himes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Denali Commission Transportation Program, AK                    $2,313,250  Begich; Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Design of Comprehensive City-Wide Mass Transit System in          $400,000                       Pierluisi
                                                                             Ponce, PR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Downtown Streetscape and Pedestrian Improvements (Final           $300,000  Lautenberg;          Lance
                                                                             Phase), Borough of North Plainfield, NJ                                     Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Downtown Streetscaping Project, Pittsfield, MA                    $500,000                       Olver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Downtown Tacoma Streetscapes Improvement Project, WA              $800,000  Murray               Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Eagle County Airport I-70 Interchange, CO                         $500,000                       Polis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East 24th Street Project, Cleveland, OH                           $500,000                       LaTourette; Fudge
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East Avenue Resurfacing, IL                                       $600,000                       Davis (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East Chester Street Improvement, TN                               $785,000  Alexander
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East Loop, Brownsville, TX                                        $500,000  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East Main Street Sidewalk Project, NY                              $40,000                       Murphy (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   East Metropolitan Corridor, MS                                  $2,750,000  Cochran; Wicker      Harper
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Eastgate Area Improvements, Clermont County, OH                   $900,000                       Schmidt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Edwards County Bone Gap Road, IL                                  $400,000                       Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Elm Street/Gas Light District Improvements, NH                  $1,000,000                       Shea-Porter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Emergency Access Ramp to Interstate 84, NY                        $974,000  Schumer              Hall (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements, Monroe       $1,245,000                       Slaughter; Arcuri;
                                                                             County, NY                                                                                       Higgins; Lee (NY);
                                                                                                                                                                              Maffei; Massa;
                                                                                                                                                                              Tonko
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements, Montgomery     $600,000                       Tonko; Arcuri;
                                                                             County, NY                                                                                       Higgins; Lee (NY);
                                                                                                                                                                              Maffei; Massa;
                                                                                                                                                                              Slaughter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Engineering Feasibility Study of Bike/Hike Connector, Hiram,      $100,000                       LaTourette
                                                                             OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Fairfax County Parkway Interchange Improvements at Fair Lakes     $584,400  Warner; Webb
                                                                             Boulevard and Monument Drive, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Fairforest at N. Blackstock Rd Intersection and Rail crossing,    $500,000                       Inglis
                                                                             SC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Flyover Connecting Highway 146 and Spur 330, TX                   $400,000  Cornyn               Poe (TX); Green,
                                                                                                                                                                              Gene; Paul
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   FM 1460 Roadway Improvements, Round Rock, TX                      $750,000                       Carter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   FNSB Road and Bridge Improvements, AK                           $1,000,000  Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Garfield Avenue Improvements (Gage Avenue to Ferguson Drive),     $500,000                       Roybal-Allard
                                                                             CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Gateway Corridor University of Mississippi Research Park          $500,000  Wicker               Childers
                                                                             Extension, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Gluckstadt Road and Interchange, MS                             $1,500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Goddard Road Reconstruction from Grant Street to Wayne Road,      $500,000                       Dingell
                                                                             City of Romulus, Wayne County, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Golden Gate Bridge Seismic Retrofit Construction Project, CA    $1,948,000  Boxer; Feinstein     Woolsey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Grand View University Pedestrian Overpass, Des Moines, IA         $400,000  Harkin               Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Greensboro Greenway, NC                                           $487,000  Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hammond Drive Roadway Upgrades/ City of Sandy Springs, GA         $500,000                       Lewis (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Harden Street Reconstruction, Columbia, SC                        $500,000  Graham (SC)          Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hardy County Complex Access Road, WV                            $1,461,000  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hastings Bridge/Highway 61 Right-of-Way and Construction, MN      $487,000  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hattiesburg Longleaf Trace Rails To Trails, MS                    $500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Henry Avenue Bridge Reconstruction, WI                            $974,000  Kohl                 Baldwin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   High Bridge Renovation, MT                                        $292,200  Tester               Rehberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   High Street Reconstruction, Village of Fairport, NY               $525,000                       Slaughter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Highway 226: Highway 67 to Highway 49, AR                         $974,000  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Highway 63 Interchange Improvements, AR                         $1,948,000  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hogan Road Traffic Improvements, ME                               $550,000  Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Holly Springs Road, MS                                          $1,500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Holmes Avenue Overpass Project, AL                                $500,000                       Griffith
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hunt Highway Improvements, Pinal County, AZ                       $500,000                       Kirkpatrick (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hutchins Street Reconstruction, Berlin, NH                        $779,200  Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hwy. 167: Louisiana State Line to Sheridan, AR                  $1,363,600  Pryor; Lincoln       Ross
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Hybrid Composite-Concrete Bridges, ME                           $2,000,000  Collins; Snowe       Michaud; Pingree
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-295 Meadowville Road Interchange, VA                            $750,000  Warner; Webb         Forbes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-40 Boulevard Construction, OK                                 $1,000,000  Inhofe               Fallin; Cole
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-44 / US-62, OK                                                  $500,000                       Cole
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-44 Range Line Road Interchange, MO                            $1,550,000  Bond                 Blunt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-64 Interchange 2.3 miles West of SR 135, Harrison County, IN    $500,000                       Hill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-69, TX                                                          $500,000  Hutchison; Cornyn    Hall (TX); Brady
                                                                                                                                                                              (TX); Olson;
                                                                                                                                                                              Green, Al; Jackson-
                                                                                                                                                                              Lee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-69, TX                                                          $500,000  Cornyn; Hutchison    Hall (TX); Brady
                                                                                                                                                                              (TX); Olson;
                                                                                                                                                                              Green, Al; Jackson-
                                                                                                                                                                              Lee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-73, SC                                                          $800,000  Graham (SC)          Spratt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   I-76 Access/Martha Avenue Connection, Akron, OH                   $750,000  Brown                Ryan (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   IL Route 120 Corridor, Lake County, IL                            $600,000  Burris               Bean
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Improvement of the South Connector Street, SD                   $1,250,000  Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Improvements and Safety Upgrades, North Providence, RI            $900,000  Reed; Whitehouse     Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Improvements to 159th Street, KS                                $2,000,000  Brownback; Roberts   Moore (KS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Indian River Inlet Bridge, DE                                     $779,200  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Indiana State Road 205 Corridor, IN                               $500,000                       Souder
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Infrastructure Improvement at Height of Land, ME                $2,900,000  Collins; Snowe       Michaud
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Interchange and Service Road at Anchor Lake, MS                 $1,000,000  Cochran              Taylor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   International Drive Extension/Folsom South Canal Bridge, CA       $500,000                       Lungren, Dan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   International Railway Station/Intermodal Transportation           $779,200  Schumer; Gillibrand
                                                                             Center, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Intersection Improvements Around State Center, Baltimore, MD      $800,000                       Cummings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Interstate 225 and Colfax Avenue Reconfiguration, Aurora, CO      $850,000                       Perlmutter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Interstate 69/Great River Bridge: Highway 65-MS Highway 1, AR   $1,948,000  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Interstate 75/Everglades Blvd Interchange, FL                     $500,000  Bill Nelson          Diaz-Balart, Mario
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Iowa Highway 14-57 Complete Streets Corridor Improvements,      $2,000,000  Grassley; Harkin
                                                                             Parkersburg, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Iowa Highway 92 Reconstruction                                    $950,000  Harkin               Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Jeannette Truck Route, PA                                         $750,000                       Murphy, Tim
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Jenny Barker Road/K-156/Mary St Reconfiguration, KS               $500,000  Brownback; Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Jerome and Mousette Lanes, Cahokia, IL                            $300,000                       Costello
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Johnson Street from Center Avenue to Columbus Avenue              $300,000  Levin; Stabenow      Kildee
                                                                             Reconstruction, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Kettering Gateway Project, Flint, MI                            $1,168,800  Levin; Stabenow      Kildee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   King Coal Highway, WV                                           $1,948,000  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Kittitas Highway Safety Improvements, WA                        $1,948,000  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Knoxville Road Reconstruction, Mercer County, IL                  $487,000  Durbin               Hare
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   LA 1 Goldenmeadow to Port Fourchon, Lafourche Parish, LA          $974,000  Landrieu; Vitter     Melancon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lafayette Interchange, MO                                       $1,000,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lake Harbour Drive, MS                                          $1,500,000  Cochran              Harper
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lake Merritt Improvement Project, CA                              $827,900  Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lakeview Trail, Mountlake Terrace Center to the Interurban        $200,000  Murray               Inslee
                                                                             Trail, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Larry Holmes Drive Traffic Calming, Easton, PA                    $250,000                       Dent
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lesner Bridge Replacement Project, Virginia Beach, VA             $750,000  Webb; Warner         Nye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lewis and Clark Legacy Trail, ND                                  $681,800  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lewis Street Overpass, Pasco, WA                                  $750,000                       Hastings (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Livingston Railroad Grade Separation Undercrossing, MT            $584,400  Baucus               Rehberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Longfellow Bridge Approach and Gateway, MA                        $974,000  Kennedy; Kerry;      Capuano
                                                                                                                                                         Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Loop 494 Upgrade, TX                                              $400,000                       Poe (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lower Main Street Infrastructure Project, Claremont, NH           $487,000  Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Lowry Avenue Bridge Replacement, MN                               $487,000  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   M Street SE Grade Separation Project, Auburn, WA                  $750,000                       Reichert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   M-231 Improvements Ottawa County, MI                              $500,000                       Hoekstra
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Mahoning Road Infrastructure and Economic Development Project,  $1,000,000  Voinovich
                                                                             OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Main Street Improvements, Estancia, NM                            $250,000                       Heinrich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Main Street Realignment Project, Torrington, CT                   $750,000  Dodd; Lieberman      Larson (CT); Murphy
                                                                                                                                                                              (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Manadas Hike and Bike Pathways, TX                                $300,000                       Cuellar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Marlton Circle Elimination--West Main Street/ Old Marlton Pike    $600,000                       Adler (NJ)
                                                                             Connector, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   McQueen Smith Road Expansion, Prattville, AL                    $1,000,000                       Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   MD 4, MD 2/4 to MD 235, including Thomas Johnson Bridge and MD    $750,000                       Hoyer
                                                                             235 Intersection, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   MD 404 Improvements in Caroline, Talbot, and Queen Anne's         $950,000  Mikulski             Kratovil
                                                                             Counties, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Mill Plain Boulevard/SE 136th Avenue Intersection, Vancouver,     $300,000  Murray               Baird
                                                                             WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Millenium Technology Park, New Castle, PA                         $500,000                       Altmire
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Missouri River Freight Corridor Development Study, MO             $900,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   MLK-Lincoln Avenue Railroad Grade Separation, WA                $1,948,000  Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   MO-13 and MO-82 Interchange, MO                                 $1,250,000  Bond                 Skelton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Monterey Bay Sanctuary Scenic Trail, CA                           $800,000                       Farr
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Morganton Road Roadway Improvements, Blount County, TN            $750,000                       Duncan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Natural Bridge Avenue (MO Route 115) Connection Planning,         $500,000                       Clay
                                                                             Engineering & Environmental Project, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Naugatuck River Greenway, CT                                      $974,000  Dodd; Lieberman      Murphy (CT);
                                                                                                                                                                              DeLauro
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Nevada Pacific Parkway, NV                                        $535,700  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   New York State Route 12, NY                                       $487,000  Schumer              Arcuri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Newberg-Dundee Transportation Improvement Project, OR             $389,600  Wyden; Merkley       Wu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Newport Cliff Walk Restoration, RI                                $487,000  Reed; Whitehouse     Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ninth Avenue Extension and Overpass Construction, Belton, TX      $750,000  Cornyn               Carter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   North Broad Street Redevelopment Project, NJ                      $487,000  Lautenberg;          Payne; Sires
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   North Carolina 28 in Macon County, NC                             $700,000                       Shuler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   North Fond du Lac Railyard Overpass, Village of North Fond du     $500,000                       Petri
                                                                             Lac, Fond du Lac County, WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   North Main Street, Columbia, SC                                   $500,000                       Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   North Street Improvements, Crown Point, IN                        $900,000                       Visclosky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Northern Avenue Bridge Rehabilitation, MA                       $1,266,200  Kennedy; Kerry;      Lynch
                                                                                                                                                         Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Northern Bypass I-66, KY                                          $950,000                       Rogers (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Northwest 66th Avenue Reconstruction, IA                          $584,400  Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Northwest Transportation Corridor Study, Grimes, IA               $300,000  Grassley             Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Oak Street Extension, Schererville, IN                            $250,000  Merkley; Wyden       Visclosky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Oakridge-Westfir Ride Center, OR                                  $400,000  Merkley; Wyden       DeFazio
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ohio 16 Dresden-Coshocton Connector, Coshocton, OH                $400,000                       Space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ohio Hub Plan including Toledo-Cleveland-Detroit Passenger        $938,300  Brown                Kaptur; Sutton;
                                                                             Rail Development, OH                                                                             Kilroy; Driehaus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Oktibbeha County Southern Bypass, MS                              $500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Old Taylor Road Roundabouts, MS                                   $500,000  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ontario Oregon Railroad Underpass Rehabilitation and              $292,200  Wyden; Merkley
                                                                             Reconstruction, OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Palatlakaha Bridge Replacement, Lake, FL                          $750,000                       Brown-Waite, Ginny
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Paramount Boulevard Improvements, Monterey Park, CA               $250,000                       Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Park and Ride Lots, Broward County, FL                            $500,000                       Meek (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Park Avenue Realignment, Chardon, OH                              $136,000                       LaTourette
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Park Avenue Revitalization Project, East Hartford, CT             $400,000                       Larson (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Park Loop Trail, Sagamore Hills Township, OH                      $343,000                       LaTourette
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Park Road Bridge Replacement and Dubuque Street Elevation       $1,500,000  Grassley             Loebsack
                                                                             Project, Iowa City, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Pedestrian, ADA and Safety Improvements on Mather Field Road,     $200,000                       Matsui
                                                                             Rancho Cordova, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Philadelphia Museum of Art Transportation Improvement Program,    $750,000                       Brady (PA)
                                                                             PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Pioneer Street Rail Overpass Safety Improvement Project, WA       $974,000  Murray               Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Port of Everett Infrastructure Improvement Project, WA          $1,168,800  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Porter Rockwell, Herriman, UT                                   $1,000,000  Bennett; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Portland Regional Traffic Congestion Improvements, ME             $800,000  Collins              Pingree (ME)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Potrero Boulevard/SR 60 Interchange in Beaumont, San              $750,000                       Lewis (CA)
                                                                             Bernardino County, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   R-170 Landslide Road Replacement, WA                            $1,948,000  Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Route 109/Main Street,       $400,000                       McGovern
                                                                             Medway, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction and Upgrade of 2300 West between 1900 South and  $1,500,000  Bennett; Hatch       Matheson
                                                                             the Interstate 15 West Frontage Road in Lehi, UT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction of County C, Bayfield County, WI                 $1,400,000                       Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction of Rib Mountain, WI                                $500,000                       Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction of Route 571 at Route 527, Toms River Township,    $300,000                       Adler (NJ)
                                                                             NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reconstruction of the Hull Street Overpass, Clovis, NM            $500,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall  Lujan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Regional East-West Trail and Bikeway, Albuquerque, NM             $974,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall  Heinrich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Remediation and Reuse of Reclaimed Port Land, DE                  $730,500  Carper; Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Replacement and Rehabilitation of Municipal Bridges and           $500,000  Murkowski; Begich
                                                                             Trestles, City of Ketchican, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Reunion Interchange, MS                                         $1,500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Rickenbacker Intermodal East-West Connector, OH                 $2,000,000  Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   River Greenway Project, Second Phase, NJ                          $400,000                       Payne; Pascrell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Road Improvements from 57th Street North to 1000 ft South of    $1,461,000  Johnson              Herseth Sandlin
                                                                             26th Street, Sioux Falls, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Road improvements in Englishtown Borough, NJ                      $750,000                       Holt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Road Resurfacing, Hayneville, AL                                  $300,000                       Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Roger Snedden Dr. Extension/Grade Separation-Phase 1, IA        $1,000,000  Harkin               Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Ronald Reagan Parkway, Hendricks County, IN                       $400,000                       Buyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Rosecrans Avenue/405 Freeway Ramp Widening Project, Hawthorne,    $500,000                       Waters
                                                                             CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 1/Route 123 Interchange Improvements, VA                    $584,400  Webb; Warner         Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 123 Bridge Replacement, Fairfax, VA                         $300,000                       Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 160 and Route 60 Interchange Improvements, MO             $1,000,000  Bond                 Blunt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 22 Sustainable Corridor, NJ                               $1,250,000  Lautenberg;          Frelinghuysen;
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez             Lance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 25--Safety and Roadway Improvements, Jackson, MO            $650,000                       Emerson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 27 Renaissance 2000 Project, NJ                             $974,000  Lautenberg;          Pallone
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 30 Intersection Improvements and Add-Lanes Widening,        $250,000                       Halvorson
                                                                             Frankfort, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 34 in Bollinger County and Cape Girardeau County, MO--      $500,000                       Emerson
                                                                             Safety Improvements and Resurfacing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 60/422 Interchange, PA                                      $487,000  Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 63 in Phelps County and Maries County, MO--Engineering      $500,000                       Emerson
                                                                             and Right of Way Improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 67 in Butler County--Extend Existing Four-Lane South to     $500,000                       Emerson
                                                                             Route 160, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Route 72, East Road, NJ                                           $500,000  Lautenberg;          Adler (NJ)
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Rt 480 Pedestrian Bridge and Safety Improvements, WV              $400,000                       Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Rucker Road at US-77 Project, KS                                  $500,000  Roberts              Moran (KS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Rutland Center Street Marketplace Improvements, VT                $974,000  Leahy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   San Bernardo Avenue Restoration, Laredo, TX                       $500,000  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   San Gabriel Trench Project, CA                                    $500,000  Feinstein; Boxer     Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   San Jose Boulevard Improvements, Carlsbad, NM                     $987,000  Tom Udall; Bingaman  Teague
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Schuyler Heim Bridge Replacement and SR-47 Expressway, CA         $500,000                       Rohrabacher; Harman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Scott Ranch Road Extension, Show Low, AZ                          $900,000                       Kirkpatrick (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   SE Main Avenue, 20th, 21st Street Underpass and Ancillary         $500,000  Klobuchar            Peterson
                                                                             Improvements, City of Moorhead, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sellwood Bridge Replacement Project, OR                         $1,266,200  Merkley; Wyden       Blumenauer; Wu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Seventh Standard Road Grade Separation Project, CA                $400,000                       McCarthy (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sidewalk Construction Project for City Schools, City of           $180,000                       Boccieri
                                                                             Alliance, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sitka Waterfront Development, AK                                  $487,000  Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sixth Street Corridor, White County, IN                           $400,000                       Buyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Smith River Trails--Rail/Trail Project, VA                        $300,000                       Perriello
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   South Bronx Greenway, Randall's Island Connector, Bronx, NY       $500,000                       Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   South Street Reconstruction and Streetscape Improvements, NY      $974,000  Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Southeast Connector, IA                                         $1,948,000  Harkin; Grassley     Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Southwest Arterial Project, IA                                    $389,600  Harkin; Grassley     Braley (IA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   SR 426/CR 419 Improvement Project, Oviedo, FL                   $1,000,000  Bill Nelson          Kosmas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   SR52 East/West Improvements, San Diego, CA                        $400,000                       Hunter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   St. John's Heritage Parkway Interchanges, Cities of Melbourne   $2,000,000  Bill Nelson          Posey
                                                                             and Palm Bay, Brevard County, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   St. Petersburg City Trails, FL                                    $500,000                       Young (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   State Route 180 East, CA                                          $800,000  Feinstein            Costa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   State Route 24/48, MS                                           $1,900,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   State Trunk Highway 64, WI                                      $1,400,000                       Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Staten Island Ferry Campus Shuttle Bus Service, NY                $381,490  Schumer              McMahon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Street and Utility Reconstruction Main Avenue, Park Rapids, MN    $730,500  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sue Ann Big Crow and Oglala Trail and Bike Path enhancement,      $487,000  Johnson
                                                                             Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Sumner County Regional Airport airport road re-location, TN     $1,500,000  Alexander            Gordon (TN)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   TH 169/I-494 Interchange Construction, MN                         $400,000  Klobuchar            Paulsen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   TH 610 construction, MN                                           $400,000                       Paulsen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   The Commonwealth Avenue Road Improvement Project, MA              $600,000                       Capuano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   The Hamilton Township Safe Streets to Schools Program, NJ         $350,000                       Smith (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Thetford Village Pedestrian Improvements, VT                      $438,300  Leahy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Three Locks Road (County Route 205) Concrete Arch Bridge          $250,000                       Space
                                                                             Replacement, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Timber Bridge on US 24, Limon, CO                                 $800,000                       Markey (CO)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Tooze Road, OR                                                    $800,000  Merkley; Wyden       Schrader
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Town Center Streetscape Improvements, Eastchester, NY             $350,000                       Lowey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Town of Haymarket Pedestrian Connections, VA                      $500,000                       Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Town of Occoquan Pedestrian Safety Enhancement, VA                $150,000                       Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Town of Purcellville Main Street and Maple Avenue Intersection    $500,000  Warner; Webb         Wolf
                                                                             Improvements, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Traffic Signal System Improvement Project, Union City, NJ         $300,000  Lautenberg;          Sires
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Transit Related Improvements for National Avenue, Monroe          $500,000                       Blunt
                                                                             Street, Brick City, and John Q. Hammons Parkway, Springfield
                                                                             MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Trapelo Road and Belmont Street Corridor, MA                      $330,000                       Markey (MA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Tuolumne River Regional Park Gateway Trail System, CA             $350,000                       Cardoza
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Tupelo Thoroughfare Northern Loop, MS                           $2,800,000  Cochran; Wicker      Childers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Twin Lakes Infrastructure Project, City of Roseville, MN        $1,000,000                       McCollum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. 195 Safety Improvements, Cheney-Spokane Road Interchange,  $1,948,000  Murray               McMorris Rodgers
                                                                             WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. 59/Alabama Grade Seperation Project, MO                    $1,000,000                       Graves
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Highway 65, Benton County, MO                                $500,000                       Skelton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Highway 90 Capacity Improvement, FL                          $500,000                       Miller (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Highway 97 and J Street Intersection Project, OR             $681,800  Wyden; Merkley       Walden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Route 322 Corridor Safety Improvements, Centre County, PA    $750,000  Specter; Casey       Thompson (PA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Route 33m, WV                                                $400,000                       Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Route 35, WV                                               $1,948,000  Byrd                 Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   U.S. Route 422 Westbound Off-Ramp Improvements at the Oaks      $1,266,200  Specter              Sestak
                                                                             Interchange, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Union Avenue Underpass over SR183, OH                             $150,000                       Boccieri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   United States Route 17/Dominion Boulevard, VA                     $487,000  Webb; Warner         Forbes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   University Boulevard Widening, Clive, IA                          $300,000  Harkin               Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   University of Kentucky Academy for Community Transportation     $1,000,000  McConnell
                                                                             Innovation, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Upper Big Thompson Canyon Bridge Replacement, CO                  $600,000                       Markey (CO)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Urban Collector Road, MS                                        $2,000,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 16B Improvements near US 16 to near SD 79, SD                  $500,000  Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 20 Corridor Improvements Toledo, OH                            $750,000                       Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 287 in Berthoud, CO                                            $300,000                       Markey (CO)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 301, Charles County, MD                                        $750,000                       Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 395 from Moana to Stead, NV                                    $681,800  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 395 North Spokane Corridor, WA                                 $400,000  Murray; Cantwell     McMorris Rodgers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 70 Bridge Repairs, TN                                        $1,500,000  Alexander
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US 93 Corridor and Kalispell Bypass, MT                         $2,922,000  Baucus; Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US Highway 12, Burbank to Walla Walla, Phase 7 , WA               $400,000  Murray; Cantwell     McMorris Rodgers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US Highway 27/State Road 80 right-of-way for the realignment      $500,000  Bill Nelson          Hastings (FL)
                                                                             of the SR 80 and US 27 intersection, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US Highway 69 Corridor Study, Bourbon and Crawford Counties,      $500,000  Roberts              Jenkins
                                                                             KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US HWY 287 Bypass, TX                                             $500,000                       Barton (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US Hwy 72 Widening in Athens, AL                                  $450,000                       Griffith
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US-25 Widening, Laurel County, KY                                 $750,000                       Rogers (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   US-63, MO                                                       $1,000,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Valencia County's Manzano Expressway, NM                          $870,000  Tom Udall            Heinrich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Vidalia Port Access Road, Vidalia, LA                           $1,461,000  Landrieu             Alexander
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Village of Owego Riverwalk, NY                                    $500,000                       Hinchey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Wadhams Road Bridge over Black River, St. Clair, MI             $2,922,000  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Warrensville/Van Aken Transit Oriented, OH                        $500,000  Brown                Fudge
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Washington and Prospect Street Signalization Project, MA          $600,000                       Lynch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Waterfront Redevelopment Access Project, WA                     $1,948,000  Murray; Cantwell     Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Wealthy Street Extension, Grand Rapids, MI                        $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Ehlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   West County Line Road, MS                                       $1,500,000  Cochran              Thompson (MS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   West Grand Avenue Extension, IA                                 $1,050,000  Harkin; Grassley     Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   West Haven Rail Passenger Station, CT                             $974,000  Lieberman; Dodd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   West Virginia Route 10, WV                                      $1,948,000  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Westlake Transit Improvement, CA                                  $500,000                       Becerra
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Widening of US Highway 278 and St. Bernard Bridge, Cullman, AL    $750,000                       Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Widening of West International Speedway Boulevard (US-92), FL     $600,000                       Kosmas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Williamsport Healthy Communities-Pathways to Health Project,      $750,000                       Carney
                                                                             PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Woodville Highway, Leon County, FL                                $250,000                       Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Yonkers Avenue Improvements, NY                                   $500,000                       Lowey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   Surface Transportation Priorities   Yucca Loma Bridge/Interstate 15 Congestion Relief Project, CA     $750,000                       Lewis (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  10th St. Connector--To extend 10th Street from Dickinson          $500,000  Burr                 Jones
                                         System Preservation                 Avenue to Stantonsburg Road, Greenville, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  55th Street Expansion in Rochester, MN                            $300,000  Klobuchar            Walz
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  5th and 6th Street Reconstruction, OR                             $779,200  Wyden; Merkley       Walden
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  6th Street Grade Separation, Vincennes, IN                        $700,000                       Ellsworth
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  7th Street Gateway Streetscape Enhancement Project, NJ            $487,000  Menendez;
                                         System Preservation                                                                                             Lautenberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Access Road to Melbourne International Airport, FL                $779,200  Bill Nelson
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Autumn Street Parkway, San Jose, CA                               $974,000  Feinstein            Lofgren, Zoe
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Bayside Trail, Portland, ME                                       $200,000  Collins              Pingree (ME)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Beaudry Road Crossing and Pathway Project, WA                     $584,400  Murray               Hastings (WA)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Beckett Bascule Bridge Replacement--Pinellas County, FL           $300,000                       Bilirakis
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Belle Chasse Bridge, Belle Chasse, Plaquemines Parish, LA         $500,000  Landrieu             Melancon
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Belleview Bypass and Baseline Road, Marion County, FL             $500,000                       Stearns
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Bike Path between Lexington and Port Sanilac, MI                  $250,000                       Miller (MI)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Bluffton Parkway Phases 6/7, SC                                   $500,000  Graham (SC)          Wilson (SC)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Bridge Replacement, MO 79 at Sandy Creek, Lincoln County, MO      $400,000                       Akin
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Bristol Street Widening, Santa Ana, CA                            $350,000                       Sanchez, Loretta
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  California State Route 119 Widening Project, CA                   $400,000                       McCarthy (CA)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Camden Waterfront Neighborhood Development Initiative, NJ         $487,000  Lautenberg;
                                         System Preservation                                                                                             Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Chapman Road Reconstruction Project, OK                           $400,000                       Lucas
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  City of Urbana Goodwin Street Expansion, IL                       $750,000                       Johnson (IL)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Completion of future I-99, US Route 15 in Steuben County, NY      $974,000  Schumer
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  County Rails-to-Trails Economic Development and Tourism           $100,000                       Murphy (NY)
                                         System Preservation                 Project, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Craighead Bridge Replacement, PA                                  $750,000  Specter; Casey       Platts
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Downtown Development Authority Streetscape, Dahlonega, GA         $392,000  Chambliss            Deal
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Dowtown Streetscape Expansion Lansdale, PA                        $500,000                       Schwartz
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Dunes Kankakee Trail, Porter County, IN                           $500,000                       Visclosky
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Echo Park/Sunset Boulevard Streetscape Beautification, CA         $600,000                       Becerra
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  El Camino East/West Corridor, AL                                $1,500,000  Sessions
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  El Dorado and Bromwich Sidewalk Improvements, CA                  $550,000                       Berman
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Elvis Presley Boulevard Improvements, TN                          $500,000  Alexander            Cohen
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Fish Lake Trail Completion, WA                                  $1,948,000  Murray
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  FM 493, Hidalgo County, TX                                        $300,000                       Hinojosa
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Freeways and Arterial System of Transportation (FAST), NV         $681,800  Reid                 Berkley; Titus
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Hamilton Street Overpass Safety Project, WA                       $974,000  Murray; Cantwell
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Harrisburg Missouri Street Hospital Access Project, IL            $400,000                       Shimkus
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Hassayampa Freeway (proposed I-11), AZ                            $250,000                       Franks (AZ)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Hays-Travis Trail System, TX                                      $300,000                       Doggett
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  I-5 Santa Clarita-Los Angeles Gateway Improvement Project, CA     $750,000  Boxer                McKeon
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  I-84, Broadway Avenue to Gowen Road Widening, ID                  $400,000  Crapo; Risch         Simpson
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  I-84, Caldwell to Nampa Widening, ID                            $1,000,000  Crapo; Risch
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Improvements to US 74/76, Columbus County, NC                     $350,000  Burr                 McIntyre
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), Bradenton and            $500,000                       Buchanan
                                         System Preservation                 Sarasota, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Interchange design and construction Kansas Highway10 and Lone     $500,000  Roberts              Moore (KS)
                                         System Preservation                 Elm Interchange, Lenexa, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Interstate 579--Cap--Urban Green Space & Park Plaza,              $974,000  Casey
                                         System Preservation                 Pittsburgh, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Interstate 75/Collier Boulevard/SR 84 Interchange                 $800,000                       Mack
                                         System Preservation                 Improvements, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Iowa Highway 100 Extension and Improvements, Cedar Rapids, IA     $500,000  Harkin               Loebsack
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Lexington-Fayette Legacy Trail, KY                                $500,000                       Chandler
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Loop 82 Railroad Overpass, TX                                     $700,000  Cornyn
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Lower Bucks County Waterfront Redevelopment and Access            $500,000                       Murphy, Patrick
                                         System Preservation                 Project, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Main Street Improvements, Springville, AL                         $500,000                       Bachus
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Midtown Transportation Infrastructure, NY                       $1,363,600  Schumer
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Mill Creek Highway, Anaconda- Deer Lodge County, MT               $500,000                       Rehberg
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Mingo Creek Greenway, Knightdale, NC                              $250,000                       Miller (NC)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Monongalia Health Systems Access Road, WV                         $974,000  Byrd
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Montrose Avenue Repaving--Harlem to Canfield, IL                  $350,000                       Schakowsky
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Mount Clemens non-motorized trail along North-bound Gratiot,      $575,000                       Levin
                                         System Preservation                 Mount Clemens, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  New Hanover Greenway System, NC                                   $243,500  Hagan                McIntyre
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  New Orleans City Park Infrastructure Improvements, New          $1,948,000  Landrieu             Cao
                                         System Preservation                 Orleans, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  New York City Commercial Vehicle Monitoring and Enforcement       $500,000                       Weiner
                                         System Preservation                 Program, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Ninth Street Island Bridge Project, MT                            $608,750  Tester
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Nordahl Bridge Widening at SR-78, San Marcos, CA                  $500,000  Boxer                Bilbray
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Park Street Pedestrian Safety Transportation Improvements,        $300,000                       Stark
                                         System Preservation                 Alameda, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Parker Bowie Road Bridge Replacement and Widening, Anderson       $400,000                       Barrett (SC)
                                         System Preservation                 County, SC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Pearl River Downtown Revitalization, NY                           $200,000                       Engel
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Pedestrian Path for the City of New Baltimore, MI                 $250,000                       Miller (MI)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Pedestrian Safety Improvement Project, NY                         $292,200  Gillibrand           Hall (NY)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Pedestrian Safety Project, Russellville, AL                       $300,000                       Aderholt
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Pedestrian walkway and waterfront access, Roosevelt Island, NY    $500,000                       Maloney
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  PJ Adams Road Improvement, FL                                     $250,000  Bill Nelson          Miller (FL)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Prairie Street Grade Separation, Elkhart, IN                      $700,000  Lugar                Donnelly (IN)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Rakow Road widening in McHenry County, IL                         $750,000                       Manzullo
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Replacement of Storm Sewer Adjacent to Route 42, Bellmawr, NJ     $500,000                       Andrews
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Rice Avenue Interchange at U.S. Highway 101, Ventura County,      $700,000  Feinstein            Capps
                                         System Preservation                 CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Riggin Road at the Walnut Street Intersection, IN               $1,000,000  Lugar
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  River Des Peres Boulevard Improvements, MO                        $200,000                       Carnahan
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Riverwalk Trail--Mile Branch River Park, Hawkinsville, GA          $90,000                       Marshall
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Road Reconstruction, Village of Rockville Centre, NY              $500,000                       McCarthy (NY)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Robstown Inland Port-Street Improvement, TX                       $300,000                       Ortiz
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Rutherford Cross Road Roundabout, CA                              $600,000                       Thompson (CA)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Safety Improvements--Salem and Montville Route 85 at CT Route     $500,000  Dodd; Lieberman      Courtney
                                         System Preservation                 82, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Salters Road Expansion Along I-85, Greenville, SC                 $300,000  Graham               Inglis
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Scoping Study on Audubon and Natcher Parkways in Western          $375,000  Bunning
                                         System Preservation                 Kentucky, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Sfgo, San Francisco, CA                                           $255,000                       Pelosi
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Sidewalk Construction in Ashland, Cherryland and Castro Valley    $600,000                       Lee (CA)
                                         System Preservation                 Communities in Alameda County, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  South Lawrence Trafficway, KS                                   $1,250,000  Roberts
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  State Road (SR) 80, FL                                            $800,000                       Rooney
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  State Road 133 from Albany to Moultrie, GA                        $800,000  Chambliss
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  State Route 71 expansion from SR-60 to I-10, Pomona, CA           $300,000                       Napolitano
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  State Route 99 Interchange Improvement Project, CA                $500,000                       Lungren, Dan
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Town of Lexington Unified Traffic Plan--Phase I, SC             $1,304,000  Graham               Wilson (SC)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  TrI-State Outerbelt (State Route 7/Chesapeake By-Pass), OH        $700,000                       Wilson (OH)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Twin Cities-to-Twin Ports Trail Linkage, MN                       $600,000                       Oberstar
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  U.S. 401 Widening Project, NC                                     $600,000                       Etheridge
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  U.S. 98 Improvements, FL                                          $500,000  Bill Nelson          Putnam
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Union Crossing, MA                                                $543,500  Kennedy; Kerry;      Tsongas
                                         System Preservation                                                                                             Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US 113 Improvements in Worcester County, MD                       $950,000  Mikulski             Kratovil
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US 41/Cobb Parkway Expansion and Bridge Replacement, GA           $500,000  Isakson              Gingrey (GA); Scott
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US 422 Schuylkill River Crossing Complex, PA                      $700,000                       Sestak
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US 60, widen between Bartlesville and Pawhuska, Osage County,     $400,000                       Lucas; Sullivan
                                         System Preservation                 OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US 78 Upgrade to Interstate Standards, MS                       $1,000,000  Wicker               Childers
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US Highway 169 Widening Project, OK                               $500,000  Inhofe               Boren; Sullivan
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  US-95, Thorncreek to Moscow, ID                                   $400,000  Crapo; Risch
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Van Cortlandt Trails Restoration, NY                              $180,000                       Engel
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Wetzel Street Bridge Replacement, WV                              $487,000  Byrd
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Widen Hwy 99W between SPRR overpass and NW Circle Boulevard,      $292,200  Wyden; Merkley
                                         System Preservation                 OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)   TCSP--Transportation & Community &  Widening of SC Highway 225, Greenwood, SC                         $400,000                       Barrett (SC)
                                         System Preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Altamont Commuter Express Alignment Project, CA                   $300,000                       Cardoza; McNerney
                                         Speed Rail Corridors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Eastern Guilford Crossing Safety Rail project, NC                 $300,000                       Coble
                                         Speed Rail Corridors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements, Genesee        $750,000                       Lee (NY); Arcuri;
                                         Speed Rail Corridors                County, NY                                                                                       Higgins; Maffei;
                                                                                                                                                                              Massa; Slaughter;
                                                                                                                                                                              Tonko
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements, Oneida       $1,000,000                       Arcuri; Higgins;
                                         Speed Rail Corridors                County , NY                                                                                      Lee (NY); Maffei;
                                                                                                                                                                              Massa; Slaughter;
                                                                                                                                                                              Tonko
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Empire Corridor West High Speed Rail Improvements, Wayne        $1,000,000                       Maffei; Arcuri;
                                         Speed Rail Corridors                County , NY                                                                                      Higgins; Lee (NY);
                                                                                                                                                                              Massa; Slaughter;
                                                                                                                                                                              Tonko
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Metrolink Sealed Corridor Grade Crossing Improvements Los         $400,000                       Sherman
                                         Speed Rail Corridors                Angeles Ventura Subdivision, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Grade Crossings on Designated High  Simi Valley-Moorpark Ventura Subdivision Grade Crossing           $750,000                       Gallegly
                                         Speed Rail Corridors                Improvements--Metrolink, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            West Wye Rail Line Relocation, City of Springfield, MO            $500,000                       Blunt
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Blue Ridge and KC Southern Railroad Rail Line Rehabilitation      $800,000                       Cleaver
                                         Improvement Program                 and Improvement, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Coos County Rail Safety Upgrades, Coos County, NH                 $800,000  Shaheen              Hodes
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority Rail Access Improvement       $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Kilpatrick (MI)
                                         Improvement Program                 Program, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Grade Crossing Mitigation, Galesburg, IL                        $2,922,000  Durbin
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Grade Separated Railroad Crossing, Northlake, TX                  $500,000                       Burgess
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Hoquiam Horn Spur Railroad Track Improvement Project, WA          $350,000                       Dicks
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Industrial Park Rail Project, Greene Co, AL                       $400,000                       Davis (AL)
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Minnesota Valley Regional Rail Authority Rehabilitation         $1,000,000    Klobuchar          Peterson; Walz
                                         Improvement Program                 Project, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            North Rail Relocation Project, Cameron County, TX                 $400,000  Hutchison            Hinojosa
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Ogden Avenue Grade Separation, Aurora, IL                       $1,000,000  Durbin               Biggert; Foster
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Port of Alexandria Rail Spur, City of Alexandria, LA              $487,000  Landrieu
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Port of Monroe Dock and Industrial Park, Monroe County, MI        $500,000                       Dingell
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Rail Safety Improvements, Tualatin, OR                            $250,000  Merkley; Wyden       Wu
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Rail Spur Extension, Greater Ouachita Parish, LA                $2,000,000  Landrieu             Alexander
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Railroad Overpass, Blytheville, AR                                $500,000  Pryor; Lincoln       Berry
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Railway-Highway Grade Crossing Mitigation, Northeastern IL      $1,948,000  Durbin
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Sacramento Intermodal Transportation Facility Rail Line           $750,000  Feinstein            Matsui
                                         Improvement Program                 Relocation, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Salem County Short Rail Line Rehabilitation, NJ                   $750,000  Lautenberg;          LoBiondo
                                         Improvement Program                                                                                             Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Shelby Intermodal Hub, MT                                         $974,000  Baucus; Tester       Rehberg
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            South Orient Rail Line Rehabilitation in San Angelo, TX         $1,000,000                       Conaway
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            South Orient Railroad Rehabiliation, TX                         $1,000,000                       Rodriguez
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Southern Rail Corridor, MN                                        $487,000  Klobuchar
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Springfield Rail Relocation, IL                                   $250,000                       Schock
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Transbay Transit Center, CA                                       $750,000  Boxer                Pelosi
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            Waterfront Rail Reconstruction Project: Kawasaki SWIMO, NY        $779,200  Schumer
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Rail Line Relocation and            West Freight Access Project, WA                                 $2,922,000  Murray; Cantwell
                                         Improvement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Research and Development (FRA)      Caltrain--Positive Train Control System, CA                     $1,250,000  Feinstein            Eshoo; Speier
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Research and Development (FRA)      Constructed Facilities Center at West Virginia University, WV     $243,500  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Research and Development (FRA)      Metrolink--Positive Train Control, CA                             $487,000  Feinstein; Boxer     Roybal-Allard;
                                                                                                                                                                              Schiff; Chu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Railroad Administration         Research and Development (FRA)      PEERS Rail Grade Crossing Safety, Statewide, IL                   $487,000  Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Bottineau Transitway                                              $250,000  Klobuchar            Ellison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Central Kentucky Mass Transit Alternatives Analysis               $300,000                       Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               C-Tran High Capacity Transit--Alternatives Analysis, WA         $1,704,500  Murray               Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Downtown L.A. Streetcar Environmental Review                      $250,000                       Roybal-Allard
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Enhanced Transit Service--Route 7 Corridor                        $350,000                       Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Green Line Extension                                              $300,000                       Capuano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Hudson-Bergen MOS-2, Northern NJ                                  $400,000  Lautenberg;          Sires
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               I-10 West Corridor Light Rail Extenson, Phoenix, AZ             $1,000,000                       Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Interstate 20-East Transit Corridor Alternatives/Environmental    $300,000  Chambliss            Johnson (GA); Lewis
                                                                             Analysis, Atlanta, GA                                                                            (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Interstate 94 Transit Corridor--St. Paul to Eau Claire,           $250,000  Klobuchar            McCollum
                                                                             Alternatives Analysis and Environmental Assessment, Ramsey
                                                                             County, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Lehigh Valley Bus Rapid Transit Analysis, PA                      $360,000  Specter              Dent
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Naval Station Norfolk/Virginia Beach Light Rail Study, VA         $979,200  Warner; Webb         Nye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               New Haven-Hartford-Springfield Rail Line Improvements, CT       $3,896,000  Dodd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Northwest New Jersey--Northeast Pennsylvania Passenger Rail       $974,000  Specter
                                                                             Project, NJ/PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Pace J-Route Bus Rapid Transit, IL                                $360,000                       Roskam
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Puyallup Bus Rapid Transit Project--Alternatives Analysis, WA   $1,461,000  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Route 8 Corridor Transit Oriented Development & Alternate         $300,000  Dodd                 DeLauro
                                                                             Modes Study
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               SE King County Commuter Rail and Transit Centers Feasibility      $360,000  Murray               Reichert
                                                                             Study, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               South Central Avenue Light Rail Feasibility Study, Phoenix, AZ    $400,000                       Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               South Davis Street Car, Salt Lake City, UT                        $360,000  Bennett; Hatch       Bishop (UT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               The Rapid Streetcar Alternative Analysis Study, MI                $360,000  Levin; Stabenow      Ehlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Alternatives Analysis               Transportation study for the Texas Medical Center, Houston, TX  $1,000,000                       Culberson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              40' Fixed Route Transit Buses, DE                                 $974,000  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Abilene Paratransit buses, TX                                     $200,000                       Neugebauer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              ACE Boulder Highway Rapid Transit Project, NV                     $750,000  Ensign; Reid         Titus; Berkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Advanced Transit Program/METRO Solutions Bus Expansion,         $1,420,000                       Culberson; Green,
                                                                             Houston, TX                                                                                      Al; Jackson-Lee
                                                                                                                                                                              (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Albany Heavy-Duty Buses, GA                                       $500,000  Isakson              Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Albany Transit Multimodal Transportation Center, GA             $1,500,000  Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Allegan County Facility Improvement and Bus Replacement, MI       $383,000  Levin; Stabenow      Upton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Allegheny County Hybrid Buses, PA                                 $700,000  Specter              Doyle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Alternative Fuel SolanoExpress Bus Replacement, Solano, CA        $500,000                       Miller, George
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Ames Intermodal Facility, IA                                      $350,000  Harkin               Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Ames Transit Facility Expansion, IA                               $750,000  Grassley             Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Anaheim Regional Transportation Intermodal Center (ARTIC),        $725,000  Feinstein; Boxer     Sanchez, Loretta;
                                                                             Anaheim, CA                                                                                      Royce; Miller,
                                                                                                                                                                              Gary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Anchorage People Mover, AK                                        $750,000  Begich               Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Area Transportation Authority of North Central PA, Rolling        $360,000  Specter              Thompson (PA)
                                                                             Stock
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Arverne East Transit Plaza, Queens, NY                            $500,000                       Meeks (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Audubon Area Community Services, bus facility, Owensboro, KY    $1,350,000                       Guthrie; Whitfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Automotive-Based Fuel Cell Hybrid Bus Program, DE                 $487,000  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Barry County Transit, Vehicle Equipment Replacement and           $127,000                       Ehlers
                                                                             Building Repair, Hastings, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              BARTA Transportation Complex Franklin Street Station              $250,000  Specter              Gerlach
                                                                             facilities, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Beloit Transit System bus and bus facilities, Beloit, WI          $150,000                       Baldwin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Benzie Transportation Authority Bus & Bus Facilities, Honor,    $1,000,000  Levin; Stabenow      Hoekstra
                                                                             MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Big Rapids Dial-A-Ride--Replacement buses, MI                     $250,000                       Camp
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bob Hope Airport Regional Transportation Center, Burbank, CA      $550,000                       Sherman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Brawley Transfer Terminal Transit Station, Brawley, CA            $300,000                       Filner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bridgeport Intermodal Transportation Center, CT                 $2,435,000  Dodd; Lieberman      Himes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Broward County Transit Infrastructure Improvements, FL            $500,000  Bill Nelson          Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                                              Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bryan Multi-Modal Transit Terminal and Parking Facility, TX       $400,000                       Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bus Acquistion--Sun Metro, El Paso, TX                          $1,000,000                       Reyes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bus and bus facilities, Kansas City, KS                           $600,000                       Moore (KS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bus Facility Renovation, Oklahoma City, OK                      $1,000,000                       Fallin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bus Replacement, Akron, OH                                        $500,000                       Sutton; Ryan (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Bus Shelter Replacement, Bal Harbour, FL                          $250,000                       Ros-Lehtinen;
                                                                                                                                                                              Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Buses and Bus Facility Improvement, Baldwin County, AL            $275,000                       Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Cache Valley Transit District Expansion, UT                     $2,000,000  Hatch; Bennett       Bishop (UT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              CAD/AVL Bus Communications System for the Livingston Area         $700,000                       Lee (NY)
                                                                             Transportation Service, Livingston County, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Cadillac/Wexford Transit Authority, replacement buses             $300,000                       Hoekstra
                                                                             Cadillac, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Cape Ann Transportation Authority (CATA) buses and fare boxes,    $500,000                       Tierney
                                                                             MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Capital Area Transit (CAT) System Operations and Maintenance      $750,000  Hagan                Price (NC); Miller
                                                                             Facility, Raleigh, NC                                                                            (NC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Capital Metro--Bus & Bus Facilities, Austin, TX                 $2,000,000  Cornyn; Hutchison    Carter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Capitol Area Transportation Authority Buses and Bus               $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Rogers (MI);
                                                                             Facilities, Lansing, MI                                                                          Kilpatrick (MI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Cedar Avenue Bus Rapid Transit, Phase I, Dakota County, MN        $681,800  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Centre Area Transportation Authority CNG Articulated Transit      $300,000  Specter              Thompson (PA)
                                                                             Buses, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Chatham Area Transit Bus and Bus Facilities, Savannah, GA       $2,525,000  Chambliss            Kingston; Barrow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Chemung County Transit Intelligent Transportation System, NY      $500,000                       Massa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Chittenden County Transportation Authority Buses, Equipment,    $1,948,000  Leahy; Sanders       Welch
                                                                             and Facilities, Including Downtown Burlington Transit Center
                                                                             Design, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Chuckanut Park and Ride Facility, Skagit County, WA               $400,000                       Larsen (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Cities of Salem and Beverly intermodal station improvements,      $700,000                       Tierney
                                                                             MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Belding Dial-A-Ride, Bus Facilities Replacement            $63,000                       Ehlers
                                                                             Equipment, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Belflower bus shelters, CA                                $500,000                       Roybal-Allard
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Corona Dial-A-Ride Bus Replacement, CA                    $208,000                       Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Dinuba CNG Fueling Station Expansion, CA                  $779,200  Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Doral Transit Circulator Program, FL                      $350,000                       Diaz-Balart, Mario
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Hawaiian Gardens bus shelters, CA                         $200,000                       Sanchez, Linda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Imperial Downtown Transportation Park, CA                 $974,000  Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Ionia, Dial-A-Ride Facility Improvements, MI              $100,000                       Ehlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Lubbock/Citibus, bus purchases, TX                        $750,000  Cornyn; Hutchison    Neugebauer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Miramar Multi Service Center and Transit Hub, FL          $500,000                       Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                                              Lincoln; Hastings
                                                                                                                                                                              (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Roma Bus Terminal, TX                                     $300,000                       Cuellar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              City of Whittier bus shelters, CA                                 $450,000                       Sanchez, Linda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Clare County Transit--New Facility, MI                            $496,000  Levin; Stabenow      Camp
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Clean Fuel Downtown Transit Circulator, Houston, TX               $800,000                       Jackson-Lee (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Clean-fueled technology buses, Onondaga County, NY                $300,000                       Maffei
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Clearwater Downtown Intermodal Terminal, St. Petersburg, FL     $1,250,000  Bill Nelson          Young (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              CNG Bus Replacement, The Fort Worth T Transportation              $885,400                       Barton (TX);
                                                                             Authority, Fort Worth TX                                                                         Granger; Burgess
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Colonial Intermodal Facility, Bluefield, WV                       $600,000                       Rahall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Colorado Transit Coalition Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, CO   $2,641,500  Bennet; Mark Udall   Polis; Perlmutter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Columbia County Multi-Modal Transit Facility, OR                  $800,000  Merkley; Wyden       Wu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Commuter Bus Replacement, Charleston, SC                        $1,000,000                       Brown (SC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Concho Valley Multi-modal Terminal, TX                            $250,000                       Conaway
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Coralville Intermodal Facility, Coralville, IA                    $750,000  Grassley; Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Corpus Christi Regional Intermodal Transit Facility, Robstown,    $500,000  Hutchison            Ortiz
                                                                             TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Corvallis Transit Bus Purchase, OR                                $600,000  Merkley; Wyden       DeFazio
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              C-Tran Transit Vehicle Replacement, WA                          $1,850,600  Murray               Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Deerfield Valley Transit Association Facilities, Buses, and       $584,400  Leahy
                                                                             Equipment, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Eaton County Transportation Authority bus and bus facilities,   $1,000,000  Levin; Stabenow      Schauer
                                                                             Eaton County, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Ed Roberts Campus bus and bus facilities, Berkley, CA             $250,000                       Lee (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Electric Hybrid Bus Upgrade Grants, IN                          $2,400,000  Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Erie Mass Transit Authority consolidation and transit           $1,400,000  Specter; Casey       Dahlkemper
                                                                             facility, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Fayetteville Multimodal Transportation Center, NC                 $400,000  Burr                 McIntyre
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Fond du Lac Area Transit bus and bus facilities, WI               $308,000                       Petri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Frankfort Transit Bus Facilities, KY                              $275,000                       Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Galveston transit vehicle replacement, TX                         $500,000  Cornyn               Paul
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Great Falls Transit District Bus Replacements, MT                 $974,000  Baucus; Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Green Bay Metro Transit bus and bus facilities, Green Bay, WI   $1,100,000                       Kagen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Green Vehicle Depot, North Hempsted, NY                           $600,000                       Ackerman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              GRTC Downtown Multimodal Center, Richmond, VA                     $450,000  Warner; Webb         Scott (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Hampton Roads Transit Bus Acquisition, Hampton, VA              $1,450,000                       Nye; Scott (VA);
                                                                                                                                                                              Wittman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Harbor Point Bus Expansion, CT                                    $487,000  Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Harrisburg Transportation Center trainshed rehabilitation         $400,000  Specter              Holden
                                                                             phase II improvements, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Harrison County Multimodal, MS                                  $2,000,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              HART Bus and Paratransit Acquisition, FL                          $500,000                       Castor (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Hobbs Transit Intermodal Facility, Hobbs, NM                      $900,000  Tom Udall; Bingaman  Teague
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Idaho Transit Coalition Bus & Bus Facilities, ID                $1,000,000  Crapo; Risch         Simpson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Indianapolis ADA Compliant Bus Facility Michigan and 71st St,     $500,000                       Carson (IN)
                                                                             IN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              IndyGo Bus Replacement, IN                                        $300,000  Lugar                Carson (IN)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Intercity Transit Vehicle Acquisition, WA                       $1,753,200  Murray               Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Intermodal Transit Facility/East Chestnut Street Garage,          $625,000  Specter              Murtha
                                                                             Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Jamaica Intermodal Station Plaza, NY                              $584,400  Gillibrand           Meeks (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              JATRAN Fleet Replacement, MS                                      $500,000  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              KCATA Bus Replacement, MO                                       $2,000,000  Bond                 Cleaver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Knoxville-Knox County CAC Transportation, TN                      $500,000                       Duncan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Lake Cumberland Community Action Agency, bus equipment, KY         $70,000                       Whitfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Lakeland Area Mass Transit District Bus Replacement and           $200,000                       Putnam
                                                                             Facility Maintenance, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              League City Park and Ride Facilities, TX                          $750,000                       Paul
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Lincoln Center Corridor Redevelopment Project, New York, NY       $500,000  Schumer              Nadler (NY); Rangel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Link Transit Vehicle Acquisition, WA                            $2,496,700  Murray               Hastings (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              llinois Downstate Bus & Bus Facilities, IL                      $3,896,000  Durbin; Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Loop 101--Scottsdale Road Park and Ride, Scottsdale, AZ           $500,000                       Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Los Angeles Central Avenue Streetscape bus shelters and           $700,000                       Becerra
                                                                             lighting, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Lufkin Veterans Clinic Shuttle capital cost of contracting, TX    $300,000  Cornyn               Gohmert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              LYNX Buses, Orlando, FL                                         $1,500,000  Martinez             Brown, Corrine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Lynx's Central Station improvements, Orlando, FL                  $550,000                       Grayson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Madison County Transit District Bus Replacement, IL               $600,000                       Costello
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Madison Metro Transit bus and bus facilities, Madison, WI         $150,000                       Baldwin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Maine Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities                            $300,000                       Michaud
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Marble Valley Regional Transit District Buses, Facilities, and  $1,461,000  Leahy
                                                                             Equipment, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Marshalltown Bus Replacement, IA                                  $315,000  Grassley             Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              MART North Leominster Commuter Rail Station Parking Structure,  $2,500,000                       Olver
                                                                             Leominster MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              MARTA Acquisition of Clean Fuel Buses, GA                       $4,000,000  Isakson              Lewis (GA); Johnson
                                                                                                                                                                              (GA); Scott (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              McBean Regional Transit Center Park & Ride Facility, CA           $300,000                       McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Metro St. Louis--Downtown Transfer Center, MO                   $1,150,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Metropolitan Tulsa Transit Authority, bus purchase, Tulsa, OK     $750,000  Inhofe               Sullivan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Midland County Connection--Bus Replacement, MI                    $203,000                       Camp
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Milwaukee County Buses, WI                                        $500,000                       Moore (WI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Minneapolis Intermodal Station , MN                               $500,000  Klobuchar            Ellison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Monrovia Station Square Transit Village, CA                       $750,000                       Dreier
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Morgan County System of Services, transit vans for HANDS Home      $50,000                       Aderholt
                                                                             Shelter for Girls, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Mt. Hope Station Transit Center, NY                               $800,000                       Slaughter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Multi-Modal Parking Hub, Glen Cove, NY                            $500,000  Schumer              King (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Multimodal University Hub, Cincinnati, OH                       $1,000,000  Voinovich            Driehaus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Municipal Transit Operators Coalition (MTOC) Bus/Bus Facility     $550,000                       Watson; Napolitano
                                                                             Improvement Project, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Newark Penn Station Intermodal Improvements, NJ                 $1,948,000  Lautenberg;          Payne
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Newton Rapid Transit Handicap Accessibility, MA                 $1,000,000                       Frank (MA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Normal Multimodal Transportation Center, Normal, IL               $250,000                       Halvorson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              North Dakota Statewide Transit, ND                              $1,461,000  Conrad; Dorgan       Pomeroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Northern New Jersey Intermodal Improvements                     $2,550,000                       Frelinghuysen;
                                                                                                                                                                              Rothman (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Northstar Phase II Commuter Buses, MN                              $97,400  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Norwalk/Santa Fe Springs Transportation Center Improvements,      $500,000                       Napolitano
                                                                             Santa Fe Springs, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Ohio Clean & Green Statewide Bus Replacement Program, OH          $692,200  Brown; Voinovich     Turner; Kilroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Orbit Neighborhood Circulator, Tempe, AZ                          $500,000                       Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pace Chicago Paratransit Vehicles, IL                           $1,300,000                       Gutierrez; Quigley;
                                                                                                                                                                              Davis (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pace Milwaukee Avenue Transit Infrastructure Enhancements, IL     $400,000                       Schakowsky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pace Transit Information Signage, Harvey and Chicago Heights,     $440,000                       Jackson (IL)
                                                                             IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pace transit infrastructure for Randall Road, Kane County, IL     $800,000                       Foster
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pacific Transit Vehicle Replacement, WA                           $250,000                       Baird
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Palm Tran Park and Ride Facilites, FL                             $800,000                       Wexler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Palmdale Transportation Center Train Platform Extension,          $370,000                       McKeon
                                                                             Palmdale, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Passaic/Bergen County Intermodel Facilities, NJ                   $800,000  Lautenberg;          Pascrell
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pennyrile Allied Community Services, bus facilities, KY           $500,000                       Whitfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pierce Transit Diesel-Electric Bus Acquisition, WA              $1,272,700  Murray               Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Pioneer Valley transit Authority Bus replacement Program,         $750,000                       Neal
                                                                             Pioneer Valley Transit District, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Port Angeles Gateway International Multi-modal Transportation     $550,000  Murray               Dicks
                                                                             Center, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Port of Anchorage Intermodal Expansion Project, AK                $487,000  Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Potomac and Rapahannock Transportation Commission Western       $1,000,000  Warner; Webb         Wittman; Connolly
                                                                             Maintenance Facility, VA                                                                         (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Purchase Hybrid Buses, Lehigh and Northampton Transportation      $615,250  Specter              Dent
                                                                             Authority (LANTA), PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Rabbittransit Bus Facility, PA                                    $250,000  Specter              Platts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Ramapo Friends Helping Friends Medical Vans, NY                   $135,000                       Engel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Reconstruction of the University Circle Rapid Station, OH       $2,000,000  Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Regional Intermodal Terminal Center, JTA, Jacksonville, FL        $400,000  Bill Nelson          Brown, Corrine;
                                                                                                                                                                              Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Regional Transportation Management System, San Diego, CA          $800,000                       Davis (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Rhode Island Senior Transportation buses, RI                      $300,000                       Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Richmond Express (REX) Transit Centers, Fairfax County, VA        $500,000                       Moran (VA);
                                                                                                                                                                              Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Riehle Plaza Transportation Improvements for CityBus,             $450,000  Lugar                Buyer
                                                                             Lafayette, IN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Riverside Transit Agency Bus Replacement Program, CA            $1,400,000                       Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Roscommon County Transportation Authority--Replacement buses,     $700,000                       Camp
                                                                             MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              RTS Bus Replacementm, City of Gainesville, Alachua County, FL     $750,000                       Stearns; Brown,
                                                                                                                                                                              Corrine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Rural Bus Program for Hawaii, Maui and Kauai, HI                $3,419,400  Inouye; Akaka        Abercrombie; Hirono
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Saginaw Transit Authority Regional Services Bus and Bus           $500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Kildee
                                                                             Facilities Project, Saginaw, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              San Joaquin Regional Operations Facility Construction, CA         $500,000                       McNerney; Cardoza
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              San Jose High Volume Bus Stop Upgrades, Santa Clara County, CA    $600,000                       Honda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Scottsdale Intermodal Center, AZ                                  $500,000                       Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Senior Center Buses, Guadalupe, AZ                                $150,000                       Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Senior Transportation Program, AL                               $2,000,000  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Silverton Senior and Disabled Transportation Service, OR           $38,404  Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              SMART Alternative Fuel Vehicles, MI                             $1,500,000  Levin; Stabenow      Kilpatrick (MI);
                                                                                                                                                                              Dingell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              South Amboy Intermodal Station, NJ                                $500,000  Lautenberg;          Pallone
                                                                                                                                                         Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              South Bay Regional Intermodal Transit Centers, CA                 $800,000                       Harman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Southern Maryland Commuter Bus Initiative                       $1,250,000  Mikulski; Cardin     Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority hybrid bus              $400,000                       Driehaus
                                                                             replacement, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Spokane Transit Diesel-Electric Hybrid Bus Acquisition, WA      $1,266,200  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              St. Petersburg Central Avenue Bus Rapid Transit, FL               $500,000                       Young (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              StarMetro Buses, Tallahassee, FL                                $1,000,000  Bill Nelson          Crenshaw; Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              State of Arkansas--Bus and bus facilities, AR                   $1,300,000  Pryor; Lincoln       Ross; Berry;
                                                                                                                                                                              Boozman; Snyder
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide (Rural and Urban) Bus & Bus Facilities, KS            $2,000,000  Brownback; Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities for Commuter Choice, NM          $1,948,000  Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, IA                              $3,405,800  Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, MO                              $2,000,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide Bus & Bus Facilities, SD                                $487,000  Johnson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Statewide Bus Replacement, RI                                     $487,000  Reed                 Kennedy; Langevin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Stone Avenue Train Station, La Grange, IL                         $700,000                       Lipinski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Suffolk County bus and bus facilities, NY                         $600,000                       Bishop (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              SunLine Transit Agency paratransit buses and commuter coaches,    $750,000                       Bono Mack
                                                                             CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Tacoma Intermodal Transit Center, WA                              $974,000  Murray               Dicks; Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              TARTA Bus and Bus Facilities, OH                                $1,000,000                       Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Tennessee Public Transit Administration Rural Transportation      $800,000                       Tanner
                                                                             Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Tennessee Statewide Bus Program, TN                             $6,625,000  Alexander; Corker    Davis (TN); Duncan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              The District Capital Cost of Contracting, Montgomery County,    $1,000,000                       Brady (TX)
                                                                             TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              The Rapid, Wealthy Operations Center Expansion Project, Grand   $1,948,000  Stabenow; Levin      Ehlers
                                                                             Rapids, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Thompsonville Intermodal Transportation Center, CT                $974,000  Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Tinley Park 80th Avenue Metra Station Development, IL             $700,000                       Biggert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky Bus Replacement          $1,850,000  McConnell            Davis (KY)
                                                                             Project, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Capitol Requests, Oklahoma City, OK                     $1,400,000                       Cole
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Facility and Bus Apron Access Construction along US 1,  $1,000,000                       Ros-Lehtinen
                                                                             Key West, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Facility for LKLP Communicaty Action Council in West    $1,000,000                       Rogers (KY)
                                                                             Liberty, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Maintenance Garage Initiative, IA                         $681,800  Harkin; Grassley     Braley (IA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Transit Vehicle and Related Equipment, MO                       $1,000,000  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Troy/Birmingham Multi-Modal Transit Center, MI                  $1,300,000  Levin; Stabenow      Peters
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              U.S. Space and Rocket Center Transporation Request,             $1,600,000                       Aderholt
                                                                             Huntsville, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Union City Intermodal Station, Phases 1C and 2, CA                $500,000                       Stark
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Union Station Intermodal Transit Center, Washington, DC           $500,000                       Norton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Union Station Intermodal, Pottsville, PA                          $400,000                       Holden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Vacaville Intermodal Station--Phase 2, CA                         $500,000                       Miller, George
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Veterans Home Handicapped-Accessible Bus and Handicapped-         $130,000                       Pierluisi
                                                                             Accessible Van, Juana Diaz, PR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              VIA Metropolitan Transit BRT improvements, San Antonio, TX        $500,000  Cornyn; Hutchison    Gonzalez; Rodriguez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              VIA Metropolitan Transit Bus Maintenance Facility                 $300,000  Hutchison            Gonzalez
                                                                             Improvements, San Antonio, Texas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              VIA Metropolitan Transit Bus US 281 / Loop 1604 Area Park &       $750,000                       Smith (TX)
                                                                             Ride, San Antonio, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Virgin Islands, Bus and Bus Facilities, VI                        $200,000                       Christensen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              VTA Renewable Energy Conversion Project, San Jose, CA             $750,000                       Lofgren, Zoe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Washoe County Bus & Bus Facilities, NV                            $615,250  Reid                 Heller
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Waterbury Intermodal Transportation Center, CT                    $500,000  Dodd; Lieberman      Murphy (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              West Seattle RapidRide and Hybrid Bus Program, Seattle, WA        $600,000  Murray               McDermott
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Western Kentucky University Shuttle Bus Improvement Project,    $1,200,000  McConnell            Guthrie
                                                                             KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Whatcom Transportation Authority Fleet Replacement Project, WA    $974,000  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Wilkes-Barre Intermodal Transportation Center, PA                 $600,000                       Kanjorski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Winter Haven/Polk County Buses, FL                                $200,000                       Putnam
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Wisconsin Bus Capital on Behalf of Transit Agencies Statewide,  $3,409,000  Kohl
                                                                             WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Buses & Bus Facilities              Wonderland Intermodal Improvements, MA                            $750,000  Kennedy; Kerry;      Markey (MA)
                                                                                                                                                         Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Ann Arbor--Detroit Regional Rail Project, Detroit, MI           $3,500,000  Stabenow; Levin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Assembly Square Orange Line Station, MA                         $1,000,000                       Capuano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Baltimore Red Line, MD                                          $3,000,000  Cardin; Mikulski     Cummings;
                                                                                                                                                                              Ruppersberger;
                                                                                                                                                                              Sarbanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Berkeley-Oakland-San Leandro Bus Rapid Transit Corridor         $1,000,000  Feinstein            Lee (CA); Stark
                                                                             Improvements Project in Alameda County, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Central Corridor Light Rail Transit Project, MN                 $2,000,000  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Charlotte Streetcar Project, NC                                   $500,000  Hagan                Watt; Kissell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line), IL                           $1,500,000  Durbin; Burris       Quigley; Lipinski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           City of Charlotte, Charlotte Area Transit System's [CATS] Blue  $14,700,00  Burr; Hagan          Kissell; Watt
                                                                             Line Extension--Northeast Corridor Project, NC                          0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           CTA Red Line North Station, Track, Viaduct and Station          $7,500,000  Durbin               Jackson (IL)
                                                                             Rehabilitation, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Draper Light Rail, UT                                           $10,000,00  Bennett; Hatch       Matheson
                                                                                                                                                     0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Fort Lauderdale--The Downtown, Transit Corridor Program,          $500,000  Bill Nelson;         Wasserman Schultz
                                                                             Downtown Transit Circulator, FL                                             Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Fort Worth Transportation Authority Southwest-to-Northeast      $4,000,000                       Granger; Burgess
                                                                             Rail Corridor, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Galveston-Houston Commuter Rail, TX                             $2,000,000  Hutchison            Paul
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           HART Light Rail Preliminary Engineering, FL                     $1,650,000  Bill Nelson;         Castor (FL)
                                                                                                                                                         Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Honolulu High Capacity Transit Corridor Project, HI             $30,000,00  Inouye; Akaka        Abercrombie; Hirono
                                                                                                                                                     0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Improvements to the Rosslyn Metro Station, VA                   $1,000,000  Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Lackawanna Cut-Off Restoration Project, PA/NJ                   $1,000,000  Casey                Kanjorski;
                                                                                                                                                                              Frelinghuysen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Metra Commuter Rail, IL                                         $8,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Metra Commuter Rail Union Pacific Northwest Line, IL                        Durbin; Burris       Bean; Davis (IL);
                                                                                                                                                                              Quigley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Metra STAR Line, IL                                                         Durbin; Burris       Roskam; Halvorson;
                                                                                                                                                                              Bean
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Metra UP-West Line, IL                                                      Durbin; Burris       Roskam; Gutierrez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Metra-Southeast Service, Chicago, IL                                        Durbin; Burris       Jackson (IL);
                                                                                                                                                                              Halvorson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Miami-Dade County Metrorail Orange Line Expansion, FL           $4,000,000  Martinez             Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                                              Lincoln; Diaz-
                                                                                                                                                                              Balart, Mario;
                                                                                                                                                                              Meek (FL);
                                                                                                                                                                              Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Modern Streetcar/Light Rail Transit System, Tucson, AZ          $4,000,000                       Giffords; Grijalva;
                                                                                                                                                                              Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Northstar Phase II--Extension of Northstar Commuter Rail to     $3,000,000  Klobuchar
                                                                             the St. Cloud Area, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Perris Valley Line, CA                                          $5,000,000  Feinstein            Bono Mack; Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Purple Line, MD                                                 $3,000,000  Cardin; Mikulski     Edwards (MD); Van
                                                                                                                                                                              Hollen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Route 1 Bus Rapid Transit, Potomac Yard High Capacity Transit,  $1,000,000  Warner; Webb         Moran (VA)
                                                                             VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           RTD East Corridor Construction, CO                              $2,500,000  Bennet; Mark Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           RTD Gold Corridor, CO                                           $2,000,000  Mark Udall; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit [SMART], CA                      $2,500,000  Boxer; Feinstein     Thompson (CA);
                                                                                                                                                                              Woolsey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Reinvestment Plan, Northern   $2,000,000  Lugar                Visclosky
                                                                             Indiana Commuter Transportation District, IN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Stamford Urban Transitway, CT                                   $2,000,000  Lieberman; Dodd      Himes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Third Street Light Rail-Central Subway Project, CA              $6,000,000  Feinstein            Pelosi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Virginia Railway Express Rolling Stock, VA                      $3,000,000  Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Capital Investment Grants           Wilmington to Newark Commuter Rail Improvement Program, DE      $3,000,000  Carper; Kaufman      Castle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Research (FTA)                      Community Transportation Association of America National        $1,000,000                       Olver
                                                                             Joblinks Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Research (FTA)                      Metropolitan Area Transportation Operations and Coordination      $200,000                       Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)    Research (FTA)                      Project TRANSIT                                                   $300,000                       Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                           DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                       Requester(s)
              Agency                            Account                        Recipient                           Project                      Amount   ---------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                Senate               House
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   180 Turning Lives Around    180 Turning Lives Around space expansion      $200,000  Lautenberg;         Smith (NJ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Inc.                                                                                Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Abused Women's Aid in       For infrastructure improvements at a          $200,000  Murkowski
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Crisis; Anchorage, AK       center to serve victims of domestic
                                                                                                   violence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ada Public Works            Water storage tower construction              $600,000  Inhofe              Cole
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Alabama PALS                Alabama PALS, Coastal Cleanup equipment       $250,000                      Bonner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Albany, GA                  For the transformation of real estate         $450,000  Chambliss
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          property and infrastructure into a
                                                                                                   Certified Industrial Park.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Alianza Dominicana, Inc.,   Construction of the Triangle Building, a      $250,000                      Rangel
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              New York, NY                mixed-use facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Altadena Library District,  Renovation, expansion and ADA compliance      $400,000                      Schiff
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Altadena, CA                at a public library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   American Legion Veterans    Construction of supportive housing for        $200,000                      Courtney
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Housing, Inc, Jewitt        veterans
                                                                       City, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   American Red Cross of       For an expansion of the existing facility     $200,000  Lugar
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Northeast Indiana
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Amos House, Providence, RI  For construction of a training and            $730,500  Reed; Whitehouse
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          support center to serve low-income
                                                                                                   individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Anchorage Community Land    For rehabilitation and renewal of key         $389,600  Begich
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Trust, Anchorage, Alaska    blighted property along Mountain View
                                                                                                   Drive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Androscoggin Valley         For the restoration of the historic           $600,000  Collins; Snowe
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Council of Governments      Camden Yarns Mill building in downtown
                                                                                                   Lewistonwould rehabilitate a blighted
                                                                                                   mill on the river
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Angelina County, TX         Angelina County Cassell-Boykin County         $500,000                      Gohmert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Park Project facility renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Annis Water Resource        Annis Water Resource Institute field          $500,000                      Hoekstra
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Institute                   station renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Appalachia Service          For a home repair program for low-income      $730,500  Byrd
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Project, Brenton, WV        families in Southern West Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Appalachia Service          To serve families below the federal           $460,000  Bunning             Rogers (KY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Project, Chavies, KY        poverty level through a variety of
                                                                                                   means, such as financial assistance or
                                                                                                   equipping homes with running water
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Appleton Housing            For construction and preservation of low-     $409,080  Kohl
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Appleton, WI     income elderly housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Architectural Heritage      For construction of a mixed-use urban         $194,800  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation, Lowell, MA      development including space for                         Kirk
                                                                                                   affordable housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ardmore Development         For infrastructure improvements               $600,000  Inhofe
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Ardmore, OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Argentine Neighborhood      For property acquisition, infrastructure    $1,000,000  Brownback
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Dev. Assoc. Kansas City,    improvements, and housing construction
                                                                       KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Arkansas Food Bank          For establishment of a new facility           $194,800  Pryor; Lincoln
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Network, Little Rock, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Augusta Housing and         Construction and rehabilitation of the        $200,000                      Barrow
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Community Development       Lucy Craft Laney/Silas X. Floyd Wellness
                                                                       Department, Augusta, GA     Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Automation Alley, Troy, MI  Planning, design, and construction of the     $394,800  Levin; Stabenow     Peters
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Automation Alley International Business
                                                                                                   Center for business incubation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bayard Rustin Access        Acquisition, planning, renovation, and        $100,000                      Davis (IL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Center                      design of a transitional living program
                                                                                                   for youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bedford County Development  Bedford County business park development      $250,000                      Shuster
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Association
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Berkshire Community         Construction of a renewable energy            $750,000                      Olver
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College, Pittsfield, MA     training center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Berrien County Development  North Berrien Industrial Park                 $300,000                      Kingston
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority                   infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Billings Food Bank          Billings Food Bank Montana Harvest            $450,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Kitchens Project building expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Blair County, PA            For acquisition, demolition and site          $293,500  Casey; Specter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          preparation within Blair County's
                                                                                                   blighted urban core areas, including
                                                                                                   downtown Altoona
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bolivar County, MS          For the renovation and repair of a            $350,000  Cochran
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          historic courthouse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bordentown Township, NJ     The Bordentown Township Light Rail            $250,000  Lautenberg;         Smith (NJ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Transit Center area renovation and                      Menendez
                                                                                                   remediation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Borough of Phoenixville,    Phoenixville downtown streetscape project     $250,000                      Gerlach
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Borough of Souderton, PA    Souderton Train Station and Freight           $500,000                      Dent
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Buildings Restoration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boyle County Fiscal Court;  For upgrades to current building and          $500,000  Bunning
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Danville,KY                 infrastructure in Boyle County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys & Girls Club of        Construction and equipment at a new           $250,000                      Hinchey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Binghamton, NY              facility to serve at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys & Girls Club of East   Boys & Girls Club of East County building     $250,000                      Hunter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              County Foundation, Inc.     renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys & Girls Club of        For renovation and expansion of a youth       $292,200  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Greater Westfield,          facility                                                Kirk
                                                                       Westfield, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys & Girls Clubs of       Renovation and expansion of the Boys and      $600,000  Lieberman           Larson (CT)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Hartford, Inc., Hartford,   Girls Club of Greater Hartford
                                                                       CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys and Girls Clubs of     Bellevue Community Center renovations         $150,000  Murray              Reichert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bellevue
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys and Girls Clubs of     For expansion of the existing youth           $974,000  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Southwest Washington, WA    facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys and Girls Clubs of     Renovation of Boys and Girls club             $100,000                      Marshall
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              the Middle Georgia          facility
                                                                       Region, Eastman, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Boys Town, NE               Boys Town building construction             $1,250,000                      Terry; Fortenberry
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Braddock Redux, Braddock,   Renovation and construction at the            $100,000                      Doyle
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              PA                          Braddock Community Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Breed Street Shul Project,  Rehabilitation of the Breed Street Shul,      $250,000                      Roybal-Allard
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Inc, Los Angeles, CA        an historic landmark
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bristol Bay Borough, AK     For infrastructure expansion at the Port    $1,000,000  Murkowski           Young (AK)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          of Bristol Bay
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bronx River Alliance,       Construction, buildout, and installation      $350,000                      Serrano
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bronx, NY                   of roof photovoltaic array at the Bronx
                                                                                                   River House
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Brooklyn Botanical Garden,  Construction and renovation for safety        $400,000                      Clarke
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Brooklyn, NY                improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Brooklyn Children's         Construction and renovation of the            $250,000                      Clarke; Towns
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Museum, Brooklyn, NY        Community Cultural and Educational
                                                                                                   Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Brooklyn Economic           Revitalization of the Moore Street Retail     $450,000                      Velazquez
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Corporation,    Market
                                                                       Brooklyn, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Brooklyn Heights            Infrastructure improvements, including        $450,000                      Velazquez
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Association, Brooklyn, NY   lighting
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Brown County Public         Renovations and updates to the Brown          $300,000                      Kagen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Library, Green Bay, WI      County Central Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Bucks County Housing        Renovations at a homeless shelter and         $200,000                      Murphy, Patrick
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Group, Wrightstown, PA      affordable housing rental units
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Buena Vista Charter         For the redevelopment of blighted             $389,600  Levin; Stabenow     Kildee
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Township, MI                property
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Buffalo Bayou Partnership,  Acquisition of land along Buffalo Bayou's     $200,000                      Green, Gene
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Houston, TX                 East Sector
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Calexico Neighborhood       Planning, design, and construction of         $200,000                      Filner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              House, Calexico, CA         five transitional units for homeless
                                                                                                   women and children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   CEDARS Youth Services, Inc  CEDARS Children's Crisis Center building      $200,000                      Fortenberry
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Central City Community      Veterans Commons building renovation and      $500,000  Bill Nelson         Bilirakis; Young
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Corporation     construction                                                                (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Central Connecticut Coast   Construction of a community recreational      $550,000                      DeLauro
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              YMCA, Inc., New Haven, CT   facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Central Islip Civic         Revitalization and redevelopment of           $200,000                      Israel
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Council, Central Islip,     foreclosed properties for affordable
                                                                       NY                          housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Chabad of the Valley,       Renovation of facilities at the Emergency     $250,000                      Sherman
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tarzana, CA                 Food and Social Services Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Charles County, MD          For installation of plumbing in low-          $292,200  Mikulski            Hoyer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          income housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Chicanos Por La Causa,      Construction at the Maryvale Workforce        $500,000                      Pastor (AZ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Inc., Phoenix, AZ           Develoment and Health Services Campus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Chippewa-Luce-Mackinac      For construction of a new service center      $389,600  Stabenow; Levin     Stupak
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Community Action Human      to house all the agency's programs which
                                                                       Resources Authority, Luce   benefit low income county residents
                                                                       County, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City and County of San      Redevelopment of the Sunnydale-Velasco        $750,000                      Pelosi
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Francisco, CA               public housing site into a mixed-income
                                                                                                   community
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Abilene, TX         Life Sciences Accelerator facilities and      $300,000  Cornyn              Neugebauer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Alexandria, LA      Alexandria Riverfront redevelopment           $500,000                      Alexander
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Alpine, TX          Construction of the Alpine Public Library     $300,000                      Rodriguez
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Anderson, IN        For technology and building                   $200,000  Lugar
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          infrastructure improvements, tenant
                                                                                                   build-out and enhancements, and
                                                                                                   laboratory development for the incubator
                                                                                                   campus of buildings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Ashland, AL         Ashland Industrial Park infrastructure        $250,000                      Rogers (AL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Atmore, AL          Elevated water tank construction              $350,000                      Bonner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Aurora, IL          Electrical substation relocation,             $300,000                      Foster
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          brownfield remediation, and economic
                                                                                                   revitalization
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Bastrop, TX         Renovation and expansion of a visitor         $200,000                      Doggett
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Billings, MT        Business Consortium Project for the           $323,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Homeless building purchase and
                                                                                                   renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Billings, MT        For the purchase of generators to provide     $974,000  Tester
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          emergency power to critical water
                                                                                                   facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Bozeman, MT         For reconstruction following an explosion     $974,000  Baucus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          in a downtown historic district
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Bradfordsville, KY  Bradfordsville senior center/community        $250,000                      Guthrie
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          center building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Brockton, MA        Reconstruction and renovation at public       $600,000                      Lynch
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          parks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Brownstown, IN      Construction of ADA-compliant sidewalks       $250,000                      Hill
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          and streetscaping
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Chesapeake, VA      Great Bridge Battlefield and Waterways        $250,000                      Forbes
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Park and Visitors Center building
                                                                                                   construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Cincinnati, OH      For redevelopment of Brownfield property      $800,000  Voinovich           Driehaus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          into a new light industrial and service
                                                                                                   center business park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Citrus Heights, CA  ADA infrastructure improvements               $450,000                      Lungren, Dan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Council Bluffs, IA  For development of low and moderate           $340,900  Harkin; Grassley
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          income housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Covington, KY       Stewart Iron Works building renovation        $250,000                      Davis (KY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Danville, IL        For acquisition, demolition and               $340,900  Durbin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          redevelopment of dilapidated and
                                                                                                   abandoned structures
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of DeLand, FL          Spring Hill Boys and Girls Community          $250,000                      Mica; Brown,
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Center building                                                             Corrine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Dells Rapids, SD    For restoration, renovation and               $487,000  Johnson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          modernization of an historic public
                                                                                                   library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Demopolis, AL       Infrastructure improvements at the            $400,000                      Davis (AL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Demopolis Airport Industrial Park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Desert Hot          For development of a community facility       $292,200  Boxer               Lewis (CA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Springs, CA                 to address serious health and public
                                                                                                   safety problems in a low income area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Detroit , MI        Infrastructure improvements,                  $400,000  Levin; Stabenow     Conyers;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          streetscaping, and ADA compliance in                                        Kilpatrick (MI)
                                                                                                   Detroit
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Dothan, AL          Demolition, planning, design, and             $500,000                      Bright
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovation of downtown business district
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of East Haven          Streetscaping, replacing sidewalks and        $500,000                      DeLauro
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          curbing, and installation of energy-
                                                                                                   efficient lighting
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Fitchburg, MA       Design, planning and engineering work for     $275,000                      Olver
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          the development of an industrial park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Forsyth, GA         For renovations of the former Tift            $650,000  Chambliss           Marshall
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          College to house the Georgia Department
                                                                                                   of Corrections. Buildings are in
                                                                                                   disrepair and must be brought up to the
                                                                                                   code
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Fort Smith, AR      Downtown Riverfront Economic Development      $250,000  Pryor; Lincoln      Boozman
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Initiative planning, design and
                                                                                                   construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Fort Worth, TX      Trinity River Vision land acquisition         $500,000                      Granger
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Gardendale, AL      Renovations and improvements to a             $100,000                      Bachus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          facility for disabled youth, with the
                                                                                                   Gardendale Miracle League
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Gig Harbor, Gig     For construction of a multi-use facility      $730,500  Murray              Dicks
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Harbor, WA                  by the Boys and Girls Club
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Greenville, MS      For renovations and infrastructure            $300,000  Cochran
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          enhancements for a youth wellness
                                                                                                   project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Guntersville, AL    Guntersville Harbor breakwater                $200,000                      Aderholt
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          replacement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hartford Housing    Demolition and reconstruction of a            $500,000                      Larson (CT)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Hartford, CT     housing complex
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hattiesburg, MS     For renovations and replacement of            $500,000  Cochran; Wicker
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          buildings and equipment in a park in a
                                                                                                   blighted neighborhood
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hillsboro, TX       Land acquisition and construction at          $400,000                      Edwards (TX)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Hillsboro parks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hondo, TX           Construction of a new shelter for women       $300,000                      Rodriguez
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          who have been victimized by physical
                                                                                                   abuse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hopkinsville, KY    For infrastructure improvements at the      $4,000,000  McConnell
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Hopkinsville-Christian County Industrial
                                                                                                   Mega Site
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Huntington Park,    Construction of an ADA- compliant trail       $300,000                      Roybal-Allard
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Hyden, KY           For construction and development of a         $500,000  Bunning
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          community wellness facility to serve
                                                                                                   southeastern Kentucky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Irondale, AL        City of Irondale streetscape project          $200,000                      Bachus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Jackson, MS         For property improvements related to the    $1,005,000  Cochran; Wicker
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Capitol Street Renaissance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Jackson, MS         For renovation and rehabilitation of the      $550,000  Cochran; Wicker
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          City of Jackson's public facilities for
                                                                                                   the arts and science
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Jal, NM             Renovation of a vacant building for           $400,000  Bingaman            Teague
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          economic development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Jefferson, IA       Streetscape improvements                      $400,000                      Latham
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Jersey City, NJ     Construction at and remediation of a          $400,000  Lautenberg;         Rothman (NJ);
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          brownfield and development of a mixed-                  Menendez            Payne
                                                                                                   use community
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Joshua, TX          Land acquisition and construction and       $1,000,000                      Edwards (TX)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          equipment for park areas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Laredo, TX          Renovation and construction at the Laredo     $200,000                      Cuellar
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Little Theatre
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Lawndale, CA        Design, demolition, and construction of a     $300,000                      Waters
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          new community center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Lewiston, ME        For the City of Lewiston's ongoing            $900,000  Collins; Snowe      Michaud
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          efforts to revitalize its riverfront
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Malden              Demolition of a building and                  $400,000                      Markey (MA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          streetscaping to revitalize a downtown
                                                                                                   area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Marine City, MI     Marine City historic building renovation      $250,000                      Miller (MI)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Memphis/Memphis     Construction and renovation at vacant         $200,000                      Cohen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Housing Authority, TN       public housing for mixed-income senior
                                                                                                   housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Midland, Midland,   For renovations to 30-year old facilities     $500,000  Cornyn
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              TX                          which serve the Midland community
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Nappanee, IN        Nappanee Airport/ New Industrial Park         $250,000                      Souder
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of New Iberia, LA      Construction of a multi-use facility in       $300,000  Landrieu            Melancon
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          New Iberia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Norco, CA           Santa Ana River Trail construction            $100,000                      Calvert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of North Adams, MA     Construction at an historic building for      $375,000                      Olver
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          ADA compliance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of North Adams, MA     For renovation and restoration of a           $194,800  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          downtown historic building in order to                  Kirk
                                                                                                   reduce blight and attract private
                                                                                                   investment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of North Port, FL      Family Services Center facility expansion     $100,000                      Buchanan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Oxford, MS          For renovation of a historical structure      $500,000  Cochran
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Palatka, FlL        Palatka Riverfront Park Redevelopment         $250,000                      Mica
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Pascagoula,         For reconstruction of City of Pascagoula      $500,000  Wicker; Cochran
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Pascagoula, MS              beach park promenade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Pawtucket, RI       For repair and renovation of an historic      $243,500  Reed
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          public library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Peoria, IL          For critical public infrastructure            $243,500  Durbin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements around the Glen Oak and
                                                                                                   Harriston Community Schools
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Philadelphia, PA    For mixed-use Transit Oriented                $487,000  Casey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Development in the area around the 9th
                                                                                                   and Berks rail station
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Piedmont, OK        For the construction of a municipal         $1,000,000  Inhofe              Lucas
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          building
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Quincy, IL          For the acquisition of blighted               $194,800  Durbin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          residential properties to create
                                                                                                   affordable housing and facilitate mixed-
                                                                                                   use development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Ravenna, KY         Construction and renovation at a public       $175,000                      Chandler
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          park for handicap accessibility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Ray City, GA        Ray City streetscape and safety               $175,000                      Kingston
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Richland, GA        Streetscaping and sidewalk improvements       $150,000                      Bishop (GA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Ridgeland, MS       City Center renovation and construction       $100,000                      Harper
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Rochester, NY       For environmental remediation,                $340,900  Gillibrand
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          demolition, and other site preparation
                                                                                                   for revitalization
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Rockford, IL        Rockford West Side economic development       $500,000  Durbin              Manzullo
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          initiative infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Round Rock, TX      Downtown Revitalization and Main Street       $500,000                      Carter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Ruston, LA          For purchase of equipment needed to           $194,800  Landrieu
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          construct the city-wide broadband
                                                                                                   network to be managed and maintained by
                                                                                                   the City of Ruston
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Salem, OR           Infrastructure improvements at the Mill       $500,000  Merkley; Wyden      Schrader
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Creek Employment Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of San Bernardino, CA  Verdemont Community Center building           $500,000                      Lewis (CA); Baca
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Sarasota, FL        Robert Taylor Community Center facilities     $150,000                      Buchanan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Shelby, MT          Shelby Downtown District Revitalization       $200,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Project building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Snoqualmie, WA      Snoqualmie Historic Downtown Main Street      $250,000                      Reichert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Springfield, IL     For acquisition of abandoned properties       $340,900  Durbin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          and upgrades to infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Suffolk, VA         Dismal Swamp Interpretive Center building     $200,000                      Forbes
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          design and construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Tarrant, AL         Five Mile Creek Greenway streetscaping        $150,000                      Bachus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Taunton, MA         For safety and access improvements at a       $194,800  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          low-income senior center                                Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Tuscaloosa,         For the downtown revitalization project     $5,000,000  Shelby
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tuscaloosa, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Tuskegee, AL        Tuskegee Industrial Park development          $250,000                      Rogers (AL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Unadilla, GA        Streetscaping and sidewalk improvements       $100,000                      Bishop (GA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Warren, PA          Capital improvements and streetscaping in     $400,000  Specter; Casey      Dahlkemper
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          downtown Warren, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Waterbury,          For the redevelopment of Brownfields and      $487,000  Lieberman; Dodd     Murphy (CT)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Waterbury, CT               blighted properties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Wenatchee,          For property acquisition and renovation     $1,461,000  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Wenatchee, WA               of Wenatchee Pybus Food Bank and
                                                                                                   Distribution Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Wilson, NC          Redevelopment, renovation and demolition      $200,000  Hagan               Butterfield
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          of vacant buildings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Winston-Salem, NC   For creation of office space to recruit       $487,000  Hagan               Watt
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          businesses to Winston-Salem, as part of
                                                                                                   the revitalization of a blighted area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of Worcester, MA       Planning, design, and engineering for the     $400,000                      McGovern
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Institute Park Renovation Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   City of York, PA            For restoration and preservation of           $779,200  Casey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          historic central market
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Claiborne County            Claiborne County Center for Higher            $189,000                      Wamp
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Industrial Development      Education building renovations and
                                                                       Board                       rehabilitation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Clarke County Economic      Clarke County Economic Development            $400,000                      Bonner; Davis (AL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Initiative      Initiative infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Cleary University           Livingston Campus Community Center            $250,000                      Rogers (MI)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Coalport Borough Council    Coalport Borough streetscape project          $150,000                      Shuster
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Commonwealth Library        Repair and renovation at the Joeten-Kiyu      $200,000                      Sablan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Council, Saipan, MP         Public Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Community Area Resource     For development of up to 60 units of          $487,000  Bingaman; Tom
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Enterprise (CARE 66),       affordable housing                                      Udall
                                                                       Gallup, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Community Chest, Virginia   For construction of a multi-use community     $194,800  Reid
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              City, NV                    center in Storey County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Community Food Bank, Inc.,  Installation and construction of a solar      $200,000                      Giffords
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tucson, AZ                  power array at the food bank
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Concourse House, HDFC,      Renovation of Concourse House, a home for     $350,000                      Serrano
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bronx, NY                   women and children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   County of Campbell, VA      Site development and construction of a        $500,000                      Perriello
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   County of Kauai, HI         For on-site infrastructure improvements       $243,500  Inouye              Hirono
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          to enable the construction of 36
                                                                                                   residential homes for low-income
                                                                                                   households
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   County of Los Angeles,      Equipment for Food Finders, Inc. of Long      $150,000                      Sanchez, Linda
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Community and Senior        Beach and Interfaith Food Center in
                                                                       Services, Los Angeles, CA   Whittier
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   County of Minnehaha, SD     For construction of a facility to house       $340,900  Johnson             Herseth Sandlin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          chronically homeless persons
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   County of Santa Clara,      Design, engineering, surveying and            $250,000                      Lofgren, Zoe;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Department of Parks and     construction of Martial Cottle Park                                         Honda
                                                                       Recreation, Los Gatos, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Covenant House Alaska,      For the relocation of a crisis center         $500,000  Murkowski
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Anchorage, Alaska           facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Crossroads, North           For the development and construction of a     $730,500  Whitehouse
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Kingstown, RI               Child Care and Community Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Custer County, ID           Custer County community center                $500,000                      Simpson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Deane Center for the        Building construction and renovation for      $100,000                      Thompson (PA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Performing Arts             the Deane Center for the Performing Arts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   DeKalb County, GA           Construction of the Ellenwood Community       $300,000                      Scott (GA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Delaware Children's         For the construction of the Delaware          $194,800  Carper; Kaufman     Castle
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Museum, DE                  Children's Museum in Wilmington,
                                                                                                   Delaware, as part of a community
                                                                                                   revitalization effort
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Department of Lands and     Design and Construction of the Garapan        $200,000                      Sablan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Natural Resources,          Public Market
                                                                       Saipan, MP
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Detroit Institute of Arts   Renovation of the roof at an historic         $750,000  Levin; Stabenow     Kilpatrick (MI);
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              (DIA), Detroit, MI          building                                                                    Conyers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Divide County, Crosby, ND   For reclamation of a former Air Force         $292,200  Dorgan; Conrad
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Base site for redevelopment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   East Central Community      For design and construction of a              $340,900  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Center, Spokane, WA         community facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   East Orange Division of     For renovation of a Senior Citizen Center     $194,800  Lautenberg;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Senior Services, East                                                               Menendez
                                                                       Orange, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Eden Housing, Hayward, CA   Renovation at the Eden Housing Affordable     $240,000                      Honda
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Housing Complex
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   El Centro de Servicios      For construction and renovation of an         $584,400  Brown               Sutton
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Sociales, Lorain, OH        aging structure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ellwood City                Planning, design, and redevelopment of        $200,000  Specter             Altmire
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Revitalization Project,     downtown Ellwood City
                                                                       Inc., Ellwood City, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Emergency Shelter of the    For acquisition and rehabilitation of         $340,900  Kohl                Kagen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Fox Valley, Appleton, WI    permanent supportive housing for
                                                                                                   chronically homeless persons
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Employment Horizons,        Employment Horizons building renovation       $400,000                      Frelinghuysen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Incorporated
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Esperanza en Escalante,     Acquisition of equipment for expanded          $75,000                      Giffords
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tucson, AZ                  services for homeless veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Esperanza, Philadelphia,    For the planning, design, rehabilitation      $194,800  Specter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              PA                          and construction of affordable housing
                                                                                                   in the Hunting Park neighborhood
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Eva's Village, Paterson,    For renovation of the center's facilities     $779,200  Lautenberg;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              NJ                                                                                  Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Federation of Italian-      Construction of a community center            $700,000                      McMahon
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              American Organizations of
                                                                       Brooklyn, Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   First Steps Primeros        For construction and start up costs for a     $194,800  Kaufman; Carper     Castle
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Pasos, Georgetown, DE       bilingual early care and education
                                                                                                   facility to help children of non-English-
                                                                                                   speaking families develop the skills
                                                                                                   needed to succeed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Food Bank for Monterey      Acquisition of equipment and a vehicle        $150,000                      Farr
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              County, Salinas, CA         for the food bank
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Food Bank of Delaware,      For expansion of a commercial kitchen, a      $194,800  Kaufman; Carper
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Newark, DE                  volunteer room, a Culinary Arts Training
                                                                                                   Facility, a retail area and additional
                                                                                                   office space that will allow the food
                                                                                                   bank to meet growing demand in Kent and
                                                                                                   Sussex counties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Fort Greene Park            Sidewalk improvements and streetscaping       $300,000                      Towns
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Conservancy, Brooklyn, NY   at the Fort Greene Park Conservancy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Freestore Foodbank,         For major renovations on two heavily used     $535,700  Brown
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Cincinnati, Ohio            food bank facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Friendly Fuld Neighborhood  Renovation of a building to provide           $400,000  Lautenberg;         Payne
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Centers, Inc., Newark, NJ   services to low-income children and                     Menendez
                                                                                                   families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Fulton County               Northeast Fulton County water system          $250,000                      Latta
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commissioners
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Geauga Park District        Geauga Park District/Geauga County            $428,000                      LaTourette
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Greenway Connector land acquisition
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Georgia Maritime Trade      For site preparation in accordance with       $900,000  Chambliss
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Center Authority,           the Parcel 7/Riverwalk Civic Master
                                                                       Savannah, GA                Plan, including planning and preparation
                                                                                                   work, and the design and construction of
                                                                                                   a public access floating dock system to
                                                                                                   accommodate traffic flow to/from the
                                                                                                   site
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Gilmer County Family        Acquisition, renovation, streetscaping        $400,000                      Mollohan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Resource Network,           and farad improvements
                                                                       Glenville, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Great Falls Development     Great Falls Industrial Park                   $300,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority                   infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Great Rivers Greenway, St.  Construction of the Carondelet Greenway       $200,000                      Carnahan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Louis, MO                   Connector
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Greater Boston Food Bank,   For construction of a regional food           $584,400  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Boston, MA                  distribution center                                     Kirk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Greater Ouachita Port       Greater Ouachita Port, surface                $250,000  Landrieu            Alexander
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commission                  development project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Groundwork, Inc.,           Construction of the Groundwork Community      $600,000                      Towns
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Brooklyn, NY                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hampshire County Special    For the acquisition of an additional          $974,000  Byrd
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Services Center, WV         facility to provide services and
                                                                                                   employment to individuals with
                                                                                                   developmental disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hawaii Public Housing       For code enforcement and renovation of 24     $389,600  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Honolulu, HI     housing units for very low to low income
                                                                                                   elderly individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hawaii Public Housing       For renovation of housing units to            $389,600  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Honolulu, HI     provide 25 refurbished housing units for
                                                                                                   low income individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Heritage Services, Omaha,   For construction of an 80,000 square          $876,600  Ben Nelson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              NE                          foot, multi-level facility that will
                                                                                                   accommodate an education and interactive
                                                                                                   learning center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hillsborough Community      Building Renovations -- Brandon Campus        $200,000                      Bilirakis
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hillview Acres Children     Hillview Acres Children building              $250,000                      Miller, Gary
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Homeward, Inc., Clarion,    For expansion of a construction finance       $194,800  Harkin; Grassley    Braley (IA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              IA                          program to develop housing in rural
                                                                                                   communities for low income individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hornell Family YMCA,        Construction of new and renovation of         $400,000                      Massa
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Hornell, NY                 older structures for cultural programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Housing Authority of        Renovation and expansion of a homeless        $375,000                      Hoyer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Calvert County, Prince      shelter
                                                                       Frederick, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Housing Connections,        Acquisition and renovation of affordable      $300,000                      Mollohan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Wheeling, WV                housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Housing Vermont,            For construction and improvement of           $243,500  Sanders
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Burlington, VT              housing stock
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Howard County, MD           For rehabilitation and equipment purchase     $487,000  Mikulski
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          for community and wellness rooms in a
                                                                                                   low and moderate income elderly housing
                                                                                                   community
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Hudson Area Library         Restoration and renovation of the Hudson      $200,000                      Murphy (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Association, Hudson, NY     Area Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Huntington Community        Renovations and energy efficient              $200,000                      Israel
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Agency,         retrofits for small business development
                                                                       Huntington, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Inc. Village of Lynbrook,   Streetscaping and sidewalk improvements       $200,000                      McCarthy (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Iowa Department of          For rehabilitation of buildings and areas     $974,000  Harkin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Economic Development, Des
                                                                       Moines, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Jackson County Commission,  For expansion of the drill hall and         $1,461,000  Byrd
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              WV                          supporting facilities at the proposed
                                                                                                   Spencer-Ripley Armed Forces Reserve
                                                                                                   Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Jackson County, MS          For Phase I of construction and               $700,000  Cochran; Wicker
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovation of Walter Anderson Arts
                                                                                                   Pavilion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Jefferson County            Harpers Ferry Interpretative Welcome          $250,000                      Capito
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Convention & Visitors       Center building construction
                                                                       Bureau (JCCVB)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   KC Parks and Recreation     For the construction of new community       $2,500,000  Bond                Cleaver
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Department, Kansas City,    center
                                                                       MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Kentucky Blood Center       Kentucky Blood Center building                $500,000                      Rogers (KY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Kentucky Communities        Construction of a community wellness          $250,000                      Rogers (KY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Economic Opportunity        center
                                                                       Council, Gray, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Kids Come First, Columbus,  For construction of a child care facility     $650,000  Voinovich           Kilroy
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   King County Housing         For the renovation and expansion of three     $974,000  Murray; Cantwell
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, King County,     youth community centers located in three
                                                                       WA                          public housing sites
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lackawanna County Board of  Design and construction of a Small            $200,000  Specter             Kanjorski
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commissioners, Scranton,    Business Incubator and/or Multipurpose
                                                                       PA                          Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lake Metroparks             Lake Metroparks/Mill Creek Corridor           $500,000                      LaTourette
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Preservation land acquisition
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lanakila Rehabilitation     For renovation and expansion of the           $292,200  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Center, Honolulu, HI        Wahiawa Training and Support Complex,
                                                                                                   which will double capacity to provide
                                                                                                   training and employment opportunities
                                                                                                   for people with disabilities and other
                                                                                                   low income individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Larchmont Public Library,   Renovation of the Larchmont Public            $175,000                      Lowey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Larchmont, NY               Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lawrence Community          Acquisition and renovation to relocate        $200,000                      Moore (KS)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Shelter, Inc., Lawrence,    and enlarge a homeless shelter
                                                                       KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Liberty Housing             Acquisition and renovation of residential     $300,000                      Schwartz
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Corporation,    units to transition disabled persons
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA            into communities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Longview Housing            For the rehabilitation of an historic         $489,600  Murray; Cantwell    Baird
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Longview, WA     building into a veterans housing and
                                                                                                   service center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lower Brule Sioux Tribe,    For purchase of new playground equipment      $194,800  Johnson             Herseth Sandlin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Lower Brule, SD             and upgrades to a kitchen and learning
                                                                                                   areas of a daycare facility to improve
                                                                                                   safety for children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Lower Brule Sioux Tribe,    For upgrades to a community center            $340,900  Johnson             Herseth Sandlin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Lower Brule, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Luna County Community       For the renovation of the old Pepsi           $399,340  Bingaman; Tom       Teague
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Recreation Facility, NM     building to house dedicated youth                       Udall
                                                                                                   activities, practice space, and
                                                                                                   community meeting rooms
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   MAGNET, Cleveland, OH       Renovation and restoration of the             $400,000                      Fudge
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Manufacturing Innovation Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Manatee County, FL          Construction of a community center in a       $250,000                      Castor (FL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          low-income neighborhood
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Maryland Department of      For restoration and preservation of           $462,650  Cardin; Mikulski    Kratovil
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Natural Resources,          properties to alleviate economic
                                                                       Annapolis, MD               distress through stimulation of private
                                                                                                   investment and community revitalization
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Maryland Food Bank,         Construction, renovation and equipment at     $492,200  Mikulski; Cardin    Sarbanes;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Baltimore, MD               the Maryland Food Bank                                                      Bartlett;
                                                                                                                                                                               Cummings;
                                                                                                                                                                               Kratovil;
                                                                                                                                                                               Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Maui Economic Concerns of   For rehabilitation and improvement of a       $487,000  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              the Community, Wailuku,     homeless resource center and affordable
                                                                       HI                          housing for low-income residents
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Meet Each Need with         Acquisition of equipment to expand            $130,000                      Berman
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Dignity (MEND), Pacoima,    services to low-income individuals
                                                                       CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mercy Housing and Shelter   Renovation of a homeless and transitional     $500,000                      Larson (CT)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation, Hartford, CT   shelter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Metropolitan Council on     Renovations and repairs at low-income         $150,000                      Weiner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Jewish Poverty, New York,   residences
                                                                       NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Metropolitan Development    Infrastructure improvements at the            $200,000                      Maffei
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Association of Syracuse     Syracuse University Research Park
                                                                       and Central New York,
                                                                       Inc., Syracuse, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mid Plains Community        For construction of a new Events Center       $487,000  Ben Nelson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College, McCook, NE         that supports rural economic development
                                                                                                   and activity in southwestern Nebraska
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Middlesex Community         For redevelopment of an underutlized          $194,800  Kennedy; Kerry;     Tsongas
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College, Lowell, MA         historic building to expand community                   Kirk
                                                                                                   services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mid-South Community         Construction of classroom and laboratory      $350,000                      Berry
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College, West Memphis, AR   space to increase capacity for workforce
                                                                                                   training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Military Business Park,     For construction of a military business       $584,400  Hagan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              City of Fayetteville, NC    park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mingo County Redevelopment  Development and construction of the           $400,000                      Rahall
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority, Williamson, WV   Southern Highlands Initative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ministry of Caring,         For renovations to the Josephine Bakhita      $194,800  Kaufman; Carper     Castle
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Wilmington, DE              House to serve as residence for young
                                                                                                   adults who are committed to social
                                                                                                   responsibility and giving back to the
                                                                                                   community through volunteer service
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Monroe County Fiscal Court  Monroe County Farmer's Market facility        $250,000                      Whitfield
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Montana Department of       For redevelopment of a Superfund site and     $730,500  Baucus
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Fish, Wildlife, and Parks   a state park
                                                                       , MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mookini Luakini             For construction and renovation of a          $194,800  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation, North Kohala,   cultural education center for low income
                                                                       HI                          youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Morgan Arts Council         Community Center building renovations         $200,000                      Capito
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Mt. Washington Community    For planning, designing, site                 $194,800  Specter             Doyle
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Corporation,    preparation, demolition and construction
                                                                       Pittsburgh, PA              associated with brownfield redevelopment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Multi-Disciplinary          For construction of a facility              $1,000,000  Murkowski
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Combined Facility for the
                                                                       Copper River Native
                                                                       Association, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Muskingum County            Renovation of a building to create a          $300,000                      Space
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commissioners,              business incubator
                                                                       Zanesville, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Nassau County Museum of     Construction and expansion                    $200,000                      Ackerman
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Art, Roslyn Harbor, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Navajo Technical College,   For construction of a regional health         $389,600  Bingaman; Tom
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Crownpoint, NM              center located on the campus of the                     Udall
                                                                                                   Navajo Technical College
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Nevada Housing and          For development of an assisted living         $681,800  Reid
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Neighborhood Development    facility for low income seniors
                                                                       (HAND), Las Vegas, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   New Bethany Ministries      Rehabilitation of a building to provide       $250,000                      Dent
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              building renovation         services for low-income people
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   New Futures, Seattle, WA    For the planning, design and construction     $438,300  Murray              McDermott
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          of a community center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   New York Families for       Energy efficient renovations and              $300,000                      Meeks (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Autistic Children, Ozone    construction at the New York Families
                                                                       Park, NY                    for Autistic Children facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Nicetown CDC,               Construction of a low-income housing tax      $400,000                      Fattah
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Philadelphia, PA            credit project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Nisei Veterans Committee    Acquisition of land for the Nisei             $200,000                      McDermott
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation, Seattle, WA     veterans memorial
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Noble County Health         For the rehabilitation of a 30 year old       $389,600  Brown
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Department, Caldwell, OH    building to increase functionality and
                                                                                                   energy efficiency
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   North Country Vietnam       North Country Vietnam Veterans                $250,000                      McHugh
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Veterans Association        Association building and renovations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   North Olympic Regional      For the purchase and conversion of a          $487,000  Murray; Cantwell
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Housing Network, Forks,     building into transitional and permanent
                                                                       WA                          supportive housing for homeless veterans
                                                                                                   and their families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Northeast Iowa Food Bank,   For construction of a food warehouse and      $340,900  Harkin              Braley (IA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Waterloo, IA                distribution center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Northern Comm. Investment   To continue to expand high speed, high      $1,000,000  Gregg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corp., St. Johnsbury, VT    technology broadband connectivity to New
                                                                                                   Hampshire's North Country
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Northside Community         To provide renovations in order to          $1,000,000  Bond
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Housing, Inc., St. Louis,   preserve affordable housing units for
                                                                       MO                          low and moderate income seniors,
                                                                                                   individuals, and families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Oak Ridge Cemetery          Oak Ridge Cemetery infrastructure             $250,000                      Schock
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Oklahoma City Commuity      Capitol Hill Center building renovations      $200,000                      Cole
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Operation Fightback, NY,    Construction of 74 units of affordable        $750,000                      Rangel
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              NY                          housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Orange County, FL           Renovation and construction of the            $400,000  Bill Nelson         Brown, Corrine
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Central Receiving Center for the
                                                                                                   homeless
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Our City Reading, Reading,  For rehabilitation of abandoned houses        $194,800  Specter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              PA                          and provision of down payment assistance
                                                                                                   to home buyers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Pantry Partners Food Bank   Pantry Partners Food Bank building            $200,000  Baucus              Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Para Los Ninos, Los         Renovations at the Vermont Child              $250,000                      Watson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Angeles, CA                 Development Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Parish of Ascension, LA     For acquisition of the multi-purpose          $681,800  Landrieu
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Paulding County Industrial  Paulding County Technology Park building      $250,000  Chambliss           Gingrey (GA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Building Authority          construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Pendleton Round-Up          For the reconstruction and construction       $487,000  Wyden; Merkley      Walden
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation, Pendleton, OR   needs of facilities which are critical
                                                                                                   to the local economy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Peoria Park District        Proctor Center park redevelopment             $250,000                      Schock
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Planning Office for Urban   Construction of affordable housing in St.     $750,000                      Frank (MA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Affairs, Inc., Boston, MA   Aidan's Redevelopment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Pocahontas County           For construction of a multipurpose          $2,922,000  Byrd
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commission, Marlinton, WV   community center, which would promote
                                                                                                   the health and wellness of county
                                                                                                   residents, and provide youth and adult
                                                                                                   alcohol and drug prevention programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Polk County, FL             Polk County Agricultural Center building      $200,000                      Putnam
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Port of Coos Bay, Coos      For purchase of critical dock equipment       $340,900  Wyden; Merkley      DeFazio
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bay, OR                     essential to local economic survival
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Portsmouth Music Hall,      For repairs, restoration and                $1,000,000  Gregg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Portsmouth, NH              modernization of a theater and
                                                                                                   construction of an additional space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Pregones Theater, Bronx,    Renovation and buildout of the Pregones       $150,000                      Serrano
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              NY                          Theater
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Public Action to Deliver    Renovation and construction of a homeless     $200,000                      Foster
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Shelter, Inc. DBA Hesed     resource center
                                                                       House, Aurora, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Randolph County Industrial  Industrial Park South infrastructure          $250,000                      Rogers (AL)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Council         improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Rebuilding Together         Renovations of housing for veterans who       $400,000                      Green, Al
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Houston, Houston, TX        are low-income or disabled
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Redevelopment Authority of  For site acquisition, demolition,             $292,200  Kohl
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              the City of Milwaukee, WI   remediation and redevelopment of
                                                                                                   priority sites in the 30th Street
                                                                                                   Industrial Corridor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ritchie County Public       Renovation and construction of the            $200,000                      Mollohan
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Library, Harrisville, WV    Ritchie County Public Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Riverfront, Inc., La        For expansion of a training facility for      $292,200  Kohl
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Crosse, WI                  vocational and independent living
                                                                                                   services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Riverplace Development      The Penn Corridor streetscaping               $250,000                      Gerlach
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Riverworks Development      Acquisition of blighted and abandoned         $250,000                      Moore (WI)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation, Milwaukee,     buildings and vacant lots in the Five
                                                                       WI                          Point Exchange area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Rockingham Community        Design and equipment at the McMichael         $250,000                      Miller (NC)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College, Wentworth, NC      Civic Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Rockland Housing Action     For construction of permanent, supportive     $974,000  Schumer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Coalition, Nanuet, NY       rental housing for existing and
                                                                                                   returning disabled veterans and their
                                                                                                   families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Rocky Mountain Development  Caird Iron Works Redevelopment                $200,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Council
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Rocky Mountain Youth        For preconstruction costs of a youth          $292,200  Tom Udall;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corps, Rancho de Taos, NM   facility                                                Bingaman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Safe Harbors of the         Restoration and renovation at the             $400,000                      Hinchey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Hudson, Inc., Newburgh,     historic Ritz Theater
                                                                       NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Saginaw County, MI          For an energy efficient infrastructure        $340,900  Stabenow; Levin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          demonstration project to support the
                                                                                                   renaissance of downtown Saginaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   San Mateo County, CA        Construction and renovation of the Half       $200,000                      Eshoo
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Moon Bay Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Scranton City, PA           For elimination of slum and blight            $292,200  Casey
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Selp-Help Housing           For the construction of a 76 lot              $487,000  Inouye              Hirono
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation of Hawaii,      subdivision for self-help housing
                                                                       Honolulu, HI                project for low income families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Seneca County Industrial    Demolition of two buildings at the Seneca     $200,000                      Arcuri
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Agency,         Army Depot
                                                                       Waterloo, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Silver Stage Youth          For design and construction of a youth        $194,800  Reid
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Organization, Silver        facility
                                                                       Springs, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Snohomish County, Everett,  For the acquisition and renovation of a       $974,000  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              WA                          new facility for use by Dawson's Place
                                                                                                   Child Advocacy Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   South Carolina Maritime     Spirit of South Carolina facilities           $250,000                      Brown (SC)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation                  construction and curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   South Jersey Economic       Aviation Research and Technology Park         $250,000                      LoBiondo
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development District        infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   South Tangipahoa Parish     Port Manchac Bulkhead renovations             $100,000                      Scalise
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Port Commission
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Spirit Lake Nation, Fort    For construction of low income senior         $730,500  Dorgan; Conrad      Pomeroy
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Totten, ND                  housing units
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Squamscott Community        For the construction of a new community     $1,000,000  Gregg; Shaheen      Shea-Porter
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Commons, Exeter, NH         center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   St. Ann's Infant and        Renovations and systems upgrades              $200,000                      Van Hollen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Maternity Home,
                                                                       Hyattsville, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   St. Louis County Economic   For the final design and construction of    $3,000,000  Bond
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Council, St. Louis, MO      Wellston Child Care Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   St. Mary Development        Renaissance Alliance Project--St. Mary        $400,000                      Turner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation                 Development Corporation building
                                                                                                   acquisition and demolition
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Starr Commonwealth, Battle  For renovations to facilities serving at-     $876,600  Levin; Stabenow     Schauer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Creek, MI                   risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Starr Commonwealth,         Renovation and expansion of transitional      $350,000                      Kilpatrick (MI);
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Detroit, MI                 facilities for youth                                                        Conyers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Susquehanna County          Construction of a public library              $300,000                      Carney
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Library, Montrose, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Tacoma Rescue Mission,      Construction of a facility for homeless       $350,000                      Dicks
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tacoma, WA                  women and families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Tallahatchie County, MS     For renovation of the Emmett Till             $195,000  Cochran; Wicker
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Memorial Complex
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Texas College               Discovery Learning Center Program             $250,000                      Gohmert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Texas State Technical       TSTC Marshall Transportation and              $200,000                      Gohmert
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              College                     Industrial Manufacturing Building
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Texas Wesleyan University   Rosedale Avenue Redevelopment Initiative      $250,000  Hutchison           Burgess
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          building renovations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Arc of Spokane,         For capital costs and equipment               $974,000  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Spokane, WA                 acquisition for the renovation of an Arc
                                                                                                   of Spokane building
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The City of Rainsville, AL  Northeast Alabama Agri-Business Center        $200,000                      Aderholt
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          facility construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Coalition for Buzzards  Green renovation of an educational            $250,000                      Frank (MA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bay, New Bedford, MA        facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Community Food Bank of  Acquisition of a building for the food        $150,000                      Farr
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              San Benito County, CA       bank
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Dunbar Coalition,       Rehabilitation of the African American        $250,000                      Grijalva
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Tucson, AZ                  Museum and Cultural Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Home for Little         Renovation of the Knight Children's           $300,000                      Capuano
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Wanderers, Boston, MA       Center, Jamaica Plain
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Housing Trust of Santa  Capitalization of a revolving loan fund       $700,000                      Honda; Eshoo;
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Clara County, CA                                                                                        Lofgren, Zoe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Institute for Human     For construction of a job and skills          $194,800  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Services, Honolulu, HI      training center at Hawaii's oldest and
                                                                                                   largest emergency homeless shelter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Manor, Jonesville, MI   Construction of educational facilities        $250,000                      Schauer
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          for developmentally disabled youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Murphy Theatre          The Murphy Theatre building renovation        $250,000                      Turner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Community Center, Inc
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Nehemiah Project, PA    Building acquisition, renovation, and         $293,500                      Shuster
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          redevelopment of Lower Fairview
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Old Slater Mill         For completion of the historic                $194,800  Whitehouse
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Association, Pawtucket,     restoration project at the Historic
                                                                       RI                          Slater Mill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The School for Children     Construction of an educational facility       $250,000                      Smith (NJ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              with Hidden Intelligence    providing special education services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Sunnybrook Foundation   Sunnybrook Historic Revitalization            $250,000                      Dent
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Project building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   The Unity Council,          Rehabilitation of the Fruitvale Community     $250,000                      Lee (CA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Oakland, CA                 Cultural Center in Oakland, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Theodore Roosevelt Medora   For restoration and expansion of historic     $292,200  Conrad
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Foundation, Medora, ND      property
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Three Square Food Bank,     Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for     $200,000  Reid                Berkley
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Las Vegas, NV               food pickup and distribution
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Tides Family Services,      For renovation and expansion of a center      $340,900  Reed
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              West Warwick, RI            for at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Toledo Metroparks, Toledo,  Acquisition of the remaining 62 acres of      $500,000                      Kaptur
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              OH                          Keil Farm
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Toledo-Lucas County Port    For purchase and remediation of the 110     $1,300,000  Voinovich
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Authority; Toledo, OH       acre former Jeep Parkway property
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Cambria, NY         Old Military Base Phase One Demolition        $250,000                      Lee (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Darien, CT          Construction of an affordable housing         $250,000                      Himes
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Gorham, NH          For renovation of a community facility to     $194,800  Shaheen
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          house programs serving children, youth
                                                                                                   and families in Coos County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Greenville, ME      For the completion of the Greenville          $250,000  Snowe               Michaud
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Junction Wharf
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Hammonton, NJ       Hammonton Downtown building renovation        $250,000  Lautenberg;         LoBiondo
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                                                                                  Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of North Kingstown,    For construction of a new senior center       $292,200  Reed; Whitehouse    Langevin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Pelahatchie, MS     Pelahatchie site development for economic     $150,000  Wicker              Harper
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Silver City, NM     For the construction of the Vistas de         $584,400  Tom Udall;          Teague
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          Plata, a 56 unit affordable housing                     Bingaman
                                                                                                   project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Town of Syracuse, IN        Syracuse Technology and Industrial Park       $500,000                      Souder
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Township of Clinton, NJ     Township of Clinton affordable housing        $250,000                      Lance
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          site preparation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Township of Union, NJ       Irvington Branch of Lightning Brook           $250,000                      Lance
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          retaining wall replacement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Trenton, NJ                 Trenton Train Station area infrastructure     $200,000                      Smith (NJ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Triangle Residential        Construction of a dorm for a substance        $400,000                      Price (NC)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Options for Substance       abuse recovery program
                                                                       Abusers (TROSA), Durham,
                                                                       NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Tubman African American     Construction of the Tubman Museum             $250,000                      Marshall
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Museum, Macon, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Tundra Women's Coalition,   For replacement of a women's facility         $487,000  Begich
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Bethel, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   UDI Community Development   Renovation and conversion of                  $200,000                      Price (NC)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Corporation, Durham, NC     deteriorating buildings to mixed-use
                                                                                                   commercial/residential space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   United Way of Dane County,  For acquisition and redevelopment of          $194,800  Kohl                Baldwin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Madison, WI                 apartment units in order to provide
                                                                                                   supportive housing for homeless families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   United Way of Kitsap        For capital costs related to the            $1,217,500  Murray
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              County, Bremerton, WA       development of the United Way Non-profit
                                                                                                   Community Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Unity House of Troy, NY     Construction and renovation of a domestic     $300,000  Gillibrand          Tonko
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          violence shelter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Uptown Theater,             Renovation of the Uptown Theater              $350,000                      Fattah; Brady (PA)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Philadelphia, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Urban League of             Renovation of facilities at Camp Atwater,     $450,000                      Neal
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Springfield, MA             a camp serving Springfield, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Utah Food Bank Services,    For expanding the capacity to collect and     $250,000  Bennett
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Utah                        distribute food to low-income
                                                                                                   individuals and families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Valley Forge Military       Renovation and construction at Von            $300,000                      Sestak
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Academy and College,        Steuben Hall
                                                                       Wayne, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Vermont Association of      For improvements to facilities for            $487,000  Sanders
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Area Agencies on Aging,     seniors
                                                                       Barre, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Vermont Division for        For preservation of historic assets           $194,800  Sanders
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Historic Preservation,
                                                                       Montpelier, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Vermont Foodbank, Barre,    For energy efficiency improvements            $194,800  Sanders
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Vermont
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Vermont Housing and         For enhancement of affordable housing,      $3,896,000  Leahy
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Conservation Board,         community development initiatives,
                                                                       Montpelier, VT              economic develompent, land conservation
                                                                                                   and historic preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Vermont Housing and         For the construction and improvement of       $243,500  Sanders
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Conservation Board,         housing stock
                                                                       Montpelier, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Veterans Memorial Building  Restoration of the Veterans Memorial          $200,000                      McNerney
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development Committee of    Building for the San Ramon Valley
                                                                       the San Ramon Valley,
                                                                       Danville, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Veterans of Foreign Wars    Renovation of facility for handicap           $200,000                      Bishop (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Post 6249 Rocky Point, NY   accessibility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Village of Villa Park, IL   Streetscaping, South Villa Corrdior           $250,000                      Roskam
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Ville Market Place, St.     Construction of a farmer's market in an       $300,000                      Clay
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Louis, MO                   inner city neighborhood
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Volunteers of America       For expansion of housing shelters and         $389,600  Levin; Stabenow     Rogers (MI)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Michigan, Lansing, MI       community access to medical, social,
                                                                                                   civic and economic services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Waipa Foundation, Hanalei,  For construction, renovation, and             $389,600  Inouye
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              HI                          equipment purchase for a state-certified
                                                                                                   commercial kitchen, food mill, and
                                                                                                   underground oven, for vocational
                                                                                                   training and processing of value-added
                                                                                                   agricultural products in low-income and
                                                                                                   farming communities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wakpa Sica Reconciliation   Construction of Wakpa Sica Reconciliation     $280,000  Johnson             Herseth Sandlin
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Place, Ft. Pierre, SD       Place
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wallington, NJ              Streetscaping and ADA compliance              $250,000                      Rothman (NJ)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Washington County, MO       Washington County ADA building                $300,000                      Emerson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          renovations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wayne County Economic       Construction and infrastructure at the        $200,000                      Taylor
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Development District,       Wayne County Industrial Park
                                                                       Waynesboro, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wayne State College,        For construction of a new collaborative       $292,200  Ben Nelson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Wayne, Nebraska             education center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   West Columbia, SC           To establish an enrichment complex for        $250,000  Graham
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          families and children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   West Manheim Township Park  West Manheim Township Park facilities         $250,000                      Platts
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              and Recreation Board        improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   West Orlando Rotary Club,   Construction of wheelchair ramps for low-     $150,000                      Grayson
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Orlando, FL                 income residents
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   West Valley City, UT        For the construction of City Center Plaza   $1,000,000  Hatch
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          in a blighted area, a critical element
                                                                                                   of a major redevelopment project with a
                                                                                                   planned intermodal center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Westerly Area Rest Meals    For expansion and renovation of a             $292,200  Reed; Whitehouse
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              (WARM Inc.), Westerly, RI   community soup kitchen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Western Montana Children's  Construction of a children's shelter          $625,000  Tester; Baucus      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Safety Initiative, MT       facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Winston County Commission,  Winston County Industrial Park                $400,000                      Aderholt
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              AL                          infrastructure improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wistariahurst Museum,       Renovation and expansion at the               $250,000                      Olver
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Holyoke, MA                 Wistariahurst Museum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Wright-Dunbar, Inc.,        Wright-Dunbar Redevelopment Project           $250,000                      Turner
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                                                          building renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Yellowstone Boys and Girls  Yellowstone Boys and Girls Ranch building     $100,000                      Rehberg
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Ranch                       renovation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   YMCA of Greater NY, New     Planning, design and construction of a        $300,000                      Nadler (NY)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              York, NY                    community center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Economic Development Initiatives   Youngstown Central Area     Remediation and renovation of a               $450,000                      Ryan (OH)
 (HUD)                              (EDI)                              Community Improvement       brownfield site to be suitable for
                                                                       Corporation, Youngstown,    technology-based businesses
                                                                       OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Calhoun County, MS          For renovation and construction of a          $900,000  Cochran
 (HUD)                                                                                             historic courthouse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           CAP Services, Stevens       Business incubator support for start-up       $400,000                      Obey
 (HUD)                                                                 Point, WI                   companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Capitol Hill Housing,       For the construction of affordable            $706,150  Murray              McDermott
 (HUD)                                                                 Seattle, WA                 housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Center for Planning         For provision of technical assistance to      $974,000  Landrieu
 (HUD)                                                                 Excellence, Baton Rouge,    a community regarding sustainable
                                                                       LA                          development, neighborhood
                                                                                                   revitalization, housing and land use
                                                                                                   planning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Charleston          Construction of the International African     $525,000                      Clyburn
 (HUD)                                                                                             American Museum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Gig Harbor, Gig     For improved physical access to area        $1,461,000  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                 Harbor, WA                  businesses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Harker Heights, TX  Armed Services YMCA facility                  $750,000                      Carter
 (HUD)                                                                                             construction, Harker Heights, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Las Vegas, NV       Foreclosure prevention and intervention       $200,000  Reid                Titus; Berkley
 (HUD)                                                                                             program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Olympia, Olympia,   For downtown revitalization and business    $1,071,400  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                 WA                          access improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           City of Superior, WI        Expansion and improvement of shipyard       $2,000,000  Kohl                Obey
 (HUD)                                                                                             repair capacity on the Great Lakes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Cleveland Institute of Art  Cleveland Institute of Art building           $500,000                      LaTourette; Fudge
 (HUD)                                                                                             construction, Cleveland, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Consumer Credit Counseling  For foreclosure prevention efforts            $487,000  Reid
 (HUD)                                                                 Service, Las Vegas, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           County of San Bernardino,   Inland Empire Economic Recovery             $1,000,000                      Lewis (CA)
 (HUD)                                                                 Riverside County            Corporation, San Bernardino, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Growing Places, Centralia,  For facility and infrastruture                $487,000  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                 WA                          improvements to an education and job
                                                                                                   training facility serving at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Holyoke Community College,  For completion of construction of a one-      $243,500  Kennedy; Kerry;     Olver
 (HUD)                                                                 Holyoke, MA                 stop education, social services, and job                Kirk
                                                                                                   training center serving low-income
                                                                                                   persons
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           homeWORD, Missoula, MT      For development of rental housing that is     $487,000  Tester; Baucus      Rehberg
 (HUD)                                                                                             affordable to working families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Housing Initiative          Spanish-language foreclosure prevention       $500,000  Mikulksi; Cardin    Hoyer; Edwards
 (HUD)                                                                 Partnership, Inc.,          program in Prince George's County, MD                                       (MD)
                                                                       Hyattsville, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Jacksonville Area Legal     For foreclosure prevention training and       $389,600  Bill Nelson
 (HUD)                                                                 Aid, Jacksonville, FL       other legal services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Jefferson County, CO        For the housing authority to establish a      $487,000  Mark Udall; Bennet  Perlmutter
 (HUD)                                                                                             new program of housing and supportive
                                                                                                   services for homeless veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Lighthouse for the Blind,   For the improved accessibility of             $535,700  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                 Inc., Seattle, WA           community and transit services for
                                                                                                   blind, low vision, and deaf-blind
                                                                                                   individuals in King, Pierce, and Spokane
                                                                                                   counties in Washington State
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Mississippi State           For community planning and development        $500,000  Cochran             Harper
 (HUD)                                                                 University, Starkville,
                                                                       MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           National Community          National Community Reniassance Affordable   $1,000,000                      Miller, Gary;
 (HUD)                                                                 Renaissance                 Housing Program, Rancho Cucamonga, CA                                       Baca; Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           National Council of La      Capitalization of a revolving loan fund     $1,000,000                      Gutierrez; Diaz-
 (HUD)                                                                 Raza, Washington, DC        to be used for nationwide community                                         Balart, Lincoln;
                                                                                                   development activities                                                      Olver; Rodriguez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           NeighborWorks Lincoln,      For neighborhood revitalization including     $487,000  Ben Nelson
 (HUD)                                                                 Lincoln, NE                 elimination of blight, construction of
                                                                                                   single family homes, rehabilitation and
                                                                                                   repairs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           New Orleans Redevelopment   Reduce Blight on Critical Corridors, New      $860,000  Landrieu            Cao
 (HUD)                                                                 Authority                   Orleans, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           North End Action Team,      For foreclosure prevention assistance         $194,800  Dodd
 (HUD)                                                                 Middletown, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           North Quabbin Woods/New     Support economic development in the North      $75,000                      Olver
 (HUD)                                                                 England Forestry            Quabbin region
                                                                       Foundation, Orange, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           North West Wisconsin        Expansion of business incubators in Rusk      $500,000                      Obey
 (HUD)                                                                 Regional Planning           County, including infrastructure
                                                                       Commission, Spooner, WI     improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Northern Community          For capitalization of a revolving loan        $487,000  Shaheen
 (HUD)                                                                 Investment Corporation,     fund to support businesses in New
                                                                       Berlin, NH                  Hampshire's North Country
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           South Dakota Science and    For infrastructure improvements to the        $389,600  Johnson; Thune      Herseth Sandlin
 (HUD)                                                                 Technology Authority,       Homestake Mine
                                                                       Lead, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Southeastern Connecticut    For programs to increase affordable           $194,800  Dodd
 (HUD)                                                                 Housing Alliance,           housing
                                                                       Norwich, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Technology Access           For the construction of the TAF Community     $487,000  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                 Foundation, White Center,   Learning Space facility
                                                                       WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Town of Huntington, NY      For construction of a state-of-the-art        $779,200  Schumer
 (HUD)                                                                                             community center for veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Urban League of Southern    For homeownership and foreclosure             $292,200  Dodd
 (HUD)                                                                 Connecticut, Stamford, CT   prevention counseling
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           Western Kentucky            WKU Business Accelerator                      $250,000                      Guthrie
 (HUD)                                                                 University
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           YWCA of Yakima, Yakima, WA  For upgrades to the YWCA's Bringing It        $292,200  Murray
 (HUD)                                                                                             Home supportive housing project for
                                                                                                   victims of domestic violence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Housing and Urban Development      Neighborhood Initiatives           YWCA Southeastern           For construction of a community center        $194,800  Kennedy; Kerry;
 (HUD)                                                                 Massachusetts, New          and women's transitional housing                        Kirk
                                                                       Bedford, MA                 facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                                  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                     [Technical Corrections]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          Project                                                                                    Project Requester(s)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Removal of and enhancements around railroad bridge in Westerly, RI\1\                                                                                        Sen. Reed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Widen Capital Circle NW/SW in Leon County, FL\1\                                                                                                             Sen. (Bill) Nelson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
John Muir Parkway Project, Brentwood, CA\1\                                                                                                                  Sen. Feinstein
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Elimination of highway-railway crossings and rehabilitation of rail along the KO railroad to Osborne, KS\1\                                                  Sen. Brownback
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
City of Tuscaloosa Downtown Revitalization Project - University Blvd, AL\1\                                                                                  Sen. Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Design and construct interchange on I-15 in Mesquite, NV\1\                                                                                                  Sen. Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lincoln Avenue Grade Separation, Port of Tacoma, WA\1\                                                                                                       Sen. Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska or Hawaii Ferry Boats or Ferry Terminal Facilities\1\                                                                                                 Sen. Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Extension of Connecticut transit projects in SAFETEA-LU\1\                                                                                                   Sen. Dodd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada for bus and bus-related projects and bus rapid transit projects, NV\1\                                 Sen. Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Old Town Boys and Girls Club, Albuquerque, NM for renovation of the Heights Boys and Girls Club\1\                                                           Sen. Bingaman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hawaii County Office of Housing and Community Development, HI for the Kaloko Transitional Housing Project\1\                                                 Sen. Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Emergency Housing Consortium in San Jose, CA for improvements to homeless services and prevention facilities\1\                                              Sen. Feinstein
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Broward County Ravenswood Transit Facility\1\                                                                                                                Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hudson-Bergen Light Rail Extension Route 440, Jersey City, NJ\1\                                                                                             Rep. Sires
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Safety Improvements and Traffic Calming Measures along Route 5 at St. Mary's County, MD\1\                                                                   Rep. Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For closed loop signal control system and other improvements for Trooper Road in Lower Providence and West Norriton Townships, Montgomery County, PA\1\      Rep. Sestak
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
East Bank River Front and Bikeway Improvements, IL\1\                                                                                                        Rep. Foster
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intersection Improvements on Crawford Avenue and 203rd Street in the Village of Olympia Fields, IL\1\                                                        Rep. Jackson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Study Improvements to 109th Avenue, Town of Winfield, City of Crown Point, Lake County, IN\1\                                                                Rep. Visclosky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ronald Reagan Parkway (Middle and Southern segments), Hendricks County, IN\1\                                                                                Rep. Buyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onville Road Intersection and Road-Widening Project, Stafford, VA\1\                                                                                         Rep. Whittman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I-29 Interchange Reconstruction in St. Joseph, MO\1\                                                                                                         Rep. Graves
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Interstate Maintenance, WV\1\                                                                                                                        Rep. Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wapsi Great Western Line Trail, Mitchell and Howard Counties, IA\1\                                                                                          Rep. Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Highway 169 Construction, Humboldt and Webster Counties, IA\1\                                                                                               Rep. Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Highway 53 Intersections, WI\1\                                                                                                                              Rep. Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Custer County, ID, Community Center\1\                                                                                                                       Rep. Simpson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Custer County, ID, Community Center\1\                                                                                                                       Rep. Simpson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations, CA\1\                                                                                                               Rep. Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rail Line and Station Improvement and Rehabilitation, Mount Vernon, NY\1\                                                                                    Rep. Engel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\1\Clarification of funds provided in previous appropriations Acts.



                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

(In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...    $117,130,120
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................     108,406,040
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................      68,819,275
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................      67,786,573
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................      67,898,645
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................     -49,231,475
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................     -40,507,395
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................        -920,630
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................        +112,072

      DIVISION B--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

      The language and allocations contained in House Report 
111-149 and Senate Report 111-34 should be complied with unless 
specifically addressed to the contrary in the conference report 
and statement of managers. The statement of managers, while 
repeating some report language for emphasis, does not intend to 
negate the language referred to above unless expressly provided 
herein. In cases where both the House and Senate reports 
address a particular issue not specifically addressed in the 
conference report or joint statement of managers, the conferees 
have determined the House report and the Senate report are not 
inconsistent and are to be interpreted accordingly, in cases 
where the House or Senate report directs the submission of a 
report, such report is to be submitted in both the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
      The conferees expect that each department and agency 
funded in this Act shall follow the directions set forth in 
this Act and the accompanying report, and shall not reallocate 
resources or reorganize activities except as provided herein. 
Reprogramming procedures shall apply to funds provided in this 
Act, unobligated balances from previous appropriations Acts 
that are available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
2010, and non-appropriated resources such as fee collections 
that are used to meet program requirements in fiscal year 2010. 
In reiterating the reprogramming procedures here, which are 
codified as section 505 of this Act, the conferees expect that 
the Appropriations Subcommittees on Commerce, Justice, Science 
and Related Agencies of the House and Senate shall be notified 
by letter a minimum of 15 days prior to--
      (1) Reprogramming of funds, whether permanent or 
temporary, in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
less, between programs or activities. This provision is also 
applicable in cases where several activities are involved with 
each receiving less than $500,000. In addition, the Committees 
are to be notified of reprogramming actions which are less than 
these amounts if such actions would be the effect of committing 
the agency to significant funding requirements in future years;
      (2) Increasing funds or personnel by any means for any 
project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
restricted;
      (3) Relocating offices or employees;
      (4) Reorganizing offices, programs, or activities;
      (5) Contracting out or privatizing any functions or 
activities presently performed by Federal employees; or
      (6) Proposing to use funds directed for a specific 
activity by either the House or the Senate for a different 
purpose.
      Furthermore, the reprogramming authorities do not allow 
the obligation of funds to create or initiate any new program, 
project or activity.
      Any reprogramming request shall include any out-year 
budgetary impacts and a separate accounting of program or 
mission impacts on estimated carryover funds. No changes shall 
be made to any program, project or activity, except as provided 
by the Committees, if it is to be construed to be a change in 
policy. Any program, project or activity cited in the reports 
of the House or Senate accompanying this Act or the conference 
agreement shall be construed as the position of the conference 
and shall not be subject to reductions or reprogramming without 
prior approval of the Committees. The conferees further expect 
any department or agency funded in this Act which plans a 
reduction-in-force to notify by letter the Appropriations 
Committees of the House and Senate 30 days in advance of the 
date of any such planned personnel action.
      The conferees note that when a department or agency 
submits a reprogramming or transfer request to the 
Appropriations Committees of the House and Senate and does not 
receive identical responses by the House and Senate, it shall 
be the responsibility of the department or agency seeking the 
reprogramming to reconcile the difference between the two 
bodies before proceeding. If reconciliation is not possible, 
the items in disagreement in the reprogramming or transfer 
request shall be considered unapproved.
      The conferees direct the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and 
the National Science Foundation to submit spending plans, 
signed by the respective department or agency head, for the 
Committees' review within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement provides $456,204,000 in total 
resources for the programs of the International Trade 
Administration (ITA) for fiscal year 2010, which includes 
$9,439,000 in offsetting fee collections.
      The conferees understand the difficulties of attempting 
to balance the positive and negative effects of a free trade 
agenda. The conferees are determined to ensure that the United 
States Government upholds its responsibility to enforce trade 
laws, particularly with China. If trading partners do not abide 
by the rules that are set in the global trading system, United 
States firms are unable to compete on a level playing field. 
The United States Government has an obligation to ensure that 
U.S. companies are not forced to compete with foreign companies 
that are engaged in unfair trading practices.
      The conferees direct ITA to submit to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations, not later than 60 days 
after the enactment of this Act, a spending plan for all ITA 
units that incorporates any carryover balances from prior 
fiscal years and expect this plan to be updated to reflect the 
obligation of funds on a quarterly basis.
      China anti-dumping and countervailing duty activities.--
The conference agreement designates funding of no less than 
$7,000,000 for the Office of China Compliance, and no less than 
$4,400,000 for the China Countervailing Duty Group within 
Import Administration. The conferees also encourage ITA to 
allocate additional resources above the request to the 
activities of both these offices.
      Travel expenditures.--The conferees continue to direct 
the Department to submit quarterly reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations regarding ITA's travel 
expenditures, including separate breakouts of funding, number 
of trips and the purposes of travel to both China and India.
      Human rights training.--The conference agreement directs 
ITA to devote no less than $500,000 from Executive Direction 
and Administration funds to ensure that American commercial 
officers and locally-engaged staff receive human rights 
training and to ensure that, when counseling U.S. businesses on 
market conditions with a particular country, employees include 
information on human rights, rule of law, and corporate 
responsibility. In addition, ITA shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not later than 60 days 
after the enactment of this Act with an annual human rights 
training plan.
      Facilitating exports with China.--The conferees direct 
that not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations a report on the status of 
the current program and the feasibility of providing additional 
assistance to small- and medium-sized businesses to facilitate 
U.S. exports to China. The report shall include, but is not 
limited to the Department's ability to provide small- and 
medium-sized businesses with: (1) assistance to find and 
utilize Federal and private resources to facilitate entering 
into the market; (2) continuous direct and personal contact 
with businesses that have entered the market; (3) assistance to 
resolve disputes with the Government of the United States or 
China relating to intellectual property rights violations, 
export restrictions, and additional trade barriers; (4) the 
location and recruitment of businesses to enter the market; (5) 
trade missions; and (6) consolidation of fees charged by the 
Department for Gold Key matching services provided for 
businesses that export goods or services produced in the United 
States to more than one market in China. The report shall 
include cost estimates for any additional services not 
currently provided, the effect of any fee reductions, and the 
number of additional personnel required.
      Anti-dumping and countervailing duties study.--The 
conferees direct the Secretary of Commerce to work with the 
Secretaries of the Departments of Homeland Security and the 
Treasury to conduct an analysis and report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations, within 180 days of 
enactment of this Act, on the relative advantages and 
disadvantages of prospective and retrospective anti-dumping and 
countervailing duty systems. The report should address the 
extent to which each type of system would likely achieve the 
goals of remedying injurious dumping or subsidized exports, 
minimize uncollected duties, reduce incentives and 
opportunities for importers to evade anti-dumping and 
countervailing duties, effectively target high-risk importers, 
address the impact of retrospective rate increases on U.S. 
importers and their employees, and create a minimal 
administrative burden.
      Appalachian-Turkish Trade Project.--The conferees 
continue to recognize the importance of trade and investment 
opportunities to the Appalachian Region, and are encouraged by 
the findings in reports that Appalachian firms could find 
significant trade and investment opportunities, particularly in 
the energy, hardwood, high technology, and transportation 
sectors, in the Republic of Turkey and the surrounding region. 
In this regard, the conferees support the Appalachian-Turkish 
Trade Project (ATTP), a project to promote opportunities to 
expand trade, encourage business interests, stimulate foreign 
studies, and build a lasting and mutually meaningful 
relationship between Appalachian states and the Republic of 
Turkey, as well as neighboring countries in the region, such as 
Greece. The conferees expect the Commercial Service to continue 
to be a prominent ATTP sponsor.
      World Trade Organization.--The conferees are aware of the 
World Trade Organization (WTO) Appellate Body's January 16, 
2003, ruling regarding the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset 
Act. The conferees direct the Department of Commerce, in 
consultation with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 
to conduct negotiations within the WTO to seek express 
recognition of the existing right of WTO Members to distribute 
monies collected from anti-dumping and countervailing duties as 
they deem appropriate. The agency shall consult with and 
provide regular reports, every 60 days, to the Appropriations 
Committees of the House and Senate on such negotiations.
      In addition, the conferees direct that negotiations be 
conducted within the WTO consistent with the negotiating 
objectives contained in the Trade Act of 2002, to maintain 
strong U.S. trade remedies laws, prevent overreaching by WTO 
Panels and the WTO Appellate Body, and prevent the creation of 
obligations never negotiated or agreed to by the United States.
      U.S. Foreign Commercial Service (USFCS).--The conferees 
strongly support an increase in the numbers of American and 
locally-engaged staff available to conduct core commercial 
activities at overseas posts. The conference agreement includes 
an increase above the request to enhance such staffing levels. 
The conferees further request that the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO) conduct the study described in the 
Senate report. In addition, the conferees direct the Department 
of Commerce to submit a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of enactment of 
this Act on steps taken to address overseas pay comparability 
for the USFCS, and how these actions compare with those taken 
by other departments for foreign service employees.
      Within the appropriation, $5,215,000 is provided for the 
following activities:


      The conferees direct ITA to refrain from charging 
administrative costs to these grants and expect that the agency 
will provide appropriate management and oversight of each 
grant.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement provides $100,342,000 for the 
Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), and includes requested 
programmatic increases of $10,000,000 for the cyber espionage 
and system modernization initiative and $1,800,000 for the 
weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and improvised explosive 
devices (IED) nonproliferation initiative.
      The conferees are concerned that crime control and law 
enforcement technologies can be exported to foreign governments 
and used to abuse human rights. The conferees understand that 
BIS is currently working to update crime control and law 
enforcement items contained on the Commerce Control List. In 
addition, BIS is working on a more complex crime control review 
to address developing technologies such as biometric 
identification systems, training simulators, and surveillance 
systems. The conferees encourage BIS to review thoroughly 
whether these new technologies can be used by foreign 
governments to repress basic human rights and to implement 
quickly appropriate export controls on items with the potential 
for abuse.

                  Economic Development Administration

      The conference agreement provides $293,000,000 for the 
programs and administrative expenses of the Economic 
Development Administration (EDA) for fiscal year 2010.

                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

      The conferees provide $255,000,000 for Economic 
Development Assistance Programs. The conferees expect EDA to 
use all available carryover and prior year recoveries to the 
maximum extent possible.
      Public Works.--The conference agreement provides 
$158,280,000 for Public Works. The conferees believe that, 
given the current economic climate, these funds are critical to 
local communities and industries faced with increased economic 
pressures and dislocations in the rapidly changing global 
economy. EDA is directed to submit future budget requests that 
maintain the current public works program funding level while 
increasing funding for regional innovation clusters and small 
business incubator efforts. Public works remain an integral 
element of economic development assistance and funding for this 
critical program should not be limited, particularly in the 
current economy.
      Global Climate Change Mitigation Fund.-- Within the funds 
provided for Public Works, the conference agreement provides no 
less than $25,000,000 for the Global Climate Change Mitigation 
Incentive Fund. The conferees emphasize that economic 
development must address climate change, and direct EDA to 
expand the program beyond Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification, to include renewable 
energy; energy efficiency; reuse, restoration and recycling; 
green buildings; the development of green products; the 
greening of an existing function, process or activity; and the 
creation or renovation of green buildings. The conferees 
further direct EDA to provide a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations within 60 days of enactment of 
this Act, detailing the scope of the fund, the criteria for 
approval of fund expenditures, and the methodology EDA will 
employ when reviewing grants.
      Planning.--The conference agreement provides $31,000,000 
for planning. The conferees direct the agency to continue to 
allocate funding to the existing network of Economic 
Development Districts (EDDs), consistent with the fiscal year 
2009 direction.
      Technical assistance.--The conference agreement provides 
$9,800,000 for technical assistance. The conferees direct EDA 
to compete two additional university centers each year with the 
additional base funding, with the goal of ensuring that each 
State has at least one center and that economically distressed 
communities are not further burdened by the lack of 
representation and the need to share and stretch resources.
      Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA).--The conference 
agreement provides $15,800,000 for TAA. While the conferees 
support this program and the recently enacted authorization, 
EDA must undertake efforts to improve overall organization, 
implementation and evaluation of its program before significant 
new investments can be recommended. The conferees therefore 
direct EDA to institute an evaluative process and use up-to-
date economic data before allocating these funds among regional 
offices. EDA is also directed to provide quarterly reports to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on the number 
of firms assisted, how that assistance is quantified, and the 
value each TAA center adds to the process.
      Economic adjustment assistance (EAA).--The conference 
agreement provides $38,620,000 for EAA.
      Regional innovation clusters.--The conferees support the 
efficiency gains of regional innovation clusters for applicants 
and the agency; encourage the use of this approach within 
existing authorities and funding structure; and note that first 
efforts will include mostly planning grants for communities as 
they identify local clusters for development. Critical to the 
success of the cluster approach, however, is coordination and 
alignment between economic development agencies. EDA is 
directed to identify appropriate agencies; establish 
coordination and alignment of priorities, applications, and 
working relationships; and report this structure to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act. EDA is directed to provide quarterly 
reports on progress and funding awards for the cluster 
initiative, and to create performance measures for future 
evaluation.
      Small business incubators.--The conferees encourage EDA 
to continue to fund business incubation efforts as it has in 
the past through its existing grant programs and budget 
structure. EDA is also directed to work with other Federal 
agencies such as the Small Business Administration, the 
Minority Business Development Agency, and the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture, to develop a coordinated Federal approach for 
supporting business incubators nationwide rather than creating 
duplicative activities within these agencies. These programs 
are available to assist new and existing businesses and should 
be coordinated and aligned among them and with the regional 
innovation clusters initiative. Within 90 days of enactment of 
this Act, EDA shall provide a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations defining the specific needs that 
EDA proposes to support through emerging business incubators in 
various communities, providing a matrix of how the various 
Federal programs currently support these centers, and 
explaining how future funding would provide beneficial synergy.
      Hawaii and the American Pacific.--The conferees are aware 
of the exceptionally large geographic area of Hawaii and the 
American Pacific, which is served by the Hawaii Economic 
Development Administration office and the increasing demands 
for services in the area, and provide increased staff support 
for this field office.
      Base realignment and closure (BRAC).--The conferees 
direct EDA, in coordination with the Department of Defense's 
Office of Economic Adjustment, to submit a report within 60 
days of the enactment of this Act. The report shall identify 
opportunities for coordination and alignment of the two 
agencies, within current authorities and budget structures, to 
address the needs of localities designated as military growth 
and closures communities, including criteria for eligible 
communities and projects, and foreseeable funding requirements 
and availability.
      Disaster funding.--The conferees encourage EDA to ensure 
that disaster funding is disbursed in a timely manner.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $38,000,000 for 
salaries and expenses. The conferees continue to support EDA's 
regional offices and reiterate their commitment to continuing 
the current operational structure with the six regional 
offices. The conference agreement provides adequate funding to 
begin filling vacancies within the regional offices, and 
continues the previous direction to fill vacancies within the 
regional offices prior to any vacancies within headquarters.
      TAA centers database.--The conferees direct the use of 
fiscal year 2009 carryover funds intended for TAA salaries and 
expenses to develop a single database for the collection of the 
data now required of the TAA centers.
      Economic development representative (EDR).--The conferees 
note that some States share an EDR, requiring some EDRs to be 
responsible for a larger geographic area. The conferees are 
concerned that the increased territorial burden is impacting 
the effectiveness of EDR efforts, therefore, the conferees 
direct the agency to develop a maximum territorial range for 
each EDR; submit costs associated with re-establishing a single 
EDR in each State to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations within 60 days of enactment of this Act; include 
funding to restore a minimum of one EDR per state in the fiscal 
year 2011 budget request; and begin implementation with a 
portion of the resources provided.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $31,500,000 for the 
Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) for fiscal year 
2010. Within the appropriation, the conference agreement 
provides not less than $200,000 for the Office of Native 
American Business Development. The conferees expect the office 
to utilize the assistance of the Native American Business 
Enterprise Centers to help fulfill its obligations to expand 
business development, trade promotion and tourism opportunities 
for Indian tribes and other Native American entities. Within 
the appropriation, $1,100,000 is provided for the 
congressionally designated activities listed below:


      MBDA is directed to work with the recipients to ensure 
that projects meet the agency's mission, to refrain from 
charging administrative costs, and to provide appropriate 
management and oversight.

                Economics and Statistics Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $97,255,000 for the 
Economics and Statistics Administration.

                          Bureau of the Census

      The conference agreement provides a total operating level 
of $7,324,731,000 for the Bureau of the Census.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $259,024,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Bureau of the Census for fiscal 
year 2010.

                     PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides a total of 
$7,065,707,000 for all periodic censuses and related programs 
in fiscal year 2010.
      Field Data Collection Automation (FDCA) Contract 
replan.--The replan of the FDCA contract resulted in a 
significant overall increase in the life cycle cost of the 
decennial census, now estimated at $14,700,000,000. The 
conferees direct the Census Bureau to provide monthly status 
reports and obligation rates on this contract and other large 
contracts related to the 2010 decennial, and include the status 
of known risks to the success of the decennial. In addition, 
the conferees direct the Census Bureau to follow the 
recommendations of the February 2009 Office of Inspector 
General (OIG) report, including the implementation of a fee 
evaluation process to ensure that fee awards are truly earned 
and contractors are incentivized to maximize value for the 
taxpayer.
      Development and reporting of milestones.--The conferees 
adopt, by reference, report language that accompanies the 
fiscal year 2008 supplemental appropriations for the Census 
Bureau regarding the development and reporting of milestones 
associated with the 2010 census.
      Communications.--The conferees direct the Census Bureau 
to work closely with the advertising provider to ensure that 
the decennial's outreach activities are targeted to achieve 
high rates of survey responses in all communities, particularly 
within hard-to-reach communities.
      Paid media.--In order to increase the mail-back response 
rate, the conferees direct the Census Bureau to allocate 
sufficient funding to support robust paid media efforts in 
preparation for the 2010 decennial census, with specific focus 
on hard-to-reach populations, ensuring these efforts surpass 
the effectiveness of such efforts in 2000.
      Partnership.--The conferees urge the Census Bureau to 
ensure it hires a diverse pool of employees, particularly for 
partnership specialist and enumerator positions for the 2010 
decennial census. These indigenous workers bring language 
skills and neighborhood and cultural knowledge to bear on the 
task, and are thus more likely to be accepted by communities 
during outreach and non-response follow-up, resulting in a more 
accurate count. The Census Bureau is also encouraged to strive 
to maintain a more diverse, full-time workforce, including at 
the senior management level.
      Mileage reimbursement for temporary workers.--The 
conferees provide sufficient funding to ensure that temporary 
employees will receive full mileage reimbursement at a rate 
that is equivalent to that of all Federal employees.
      Fingerprinting.--A recent GAO report highlighted flaws in 
the Bureau's current methods for fingerprinting temporary 
census workers, a safeguard instituted in the 2010 Decennial. 
The conferees direct the Bureau to evaluate its procedures and 
to build on the steps the Bureau is taking to improve employee 
training and ensure the safety of the public.
      Other languages.--The conferees direct the Bureau to 
provide the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations with 
updates of its language assistance program on a semi-annual 
basis, including information on how it will reach and assist 
respondents who speak Asian, American Indian, Alaska Native, 
Spanish, and other languages for the ACS and the 2010 decennial 
census.
      Data on small population groups and offshore U.S. 
jurisdictions.--The conferees direct the Bureau to report to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 90 
days of enactment of this Act, describing the steps it will 
take to ensure the availability and accuracy of small 
population groups data from the ACS and decennial census, and 
for reporting aggregate data reflecting all citizens of the 
United States, including Puerto Rico and other offshore 
jurisdictions.
      Additional outreach.--The conferees direct the Bureau to 
ensure full funding of Census in Schools and adult education 
materials.
      Inspector General recommendations.--The conferees note 
that the OIG issued three recommendations to promote an 
accurate address list and contain costs. The conferees are 
concerned that the Census Bureau has failed to implement these 
recommendations and thus direct the Census Bureau to report to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, within 60 
days of enactment of this Act, on the steps it is taking to 
implement the OIG's recommendations.
      Non-decennial programs.--The conference agreement 
provides $214,581,000 for non-decennial periodic census 
programs.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $19,999,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration (NTIA).
      The conference agreement retains language from previous 
years allowing the Secretary of Commerce to collect 
reimbursements from other Federal agencies for a portion of the 
cost of coordination of spectrum management, analysis, and 
operations. NTIA shall submit a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations no later than June 1, 2010, 
detailing the collection of reimbursements from other agencies 
related to spectrum management, analyses, and research.
      Preventing contraband cell phone use in prisons.--The 
conferees are concerned with the increased smuggling of 
contraband cell phones into State and Federal prisons and the 
use of such devices by inmates to orchestrate prison-breaks, 
conduct illegal activity, and harass or intimidate judges, 
lawyers or former victims. To deter contraband cell phones, 
States have begun to pursue aggressively smugglers and abettors 
of inmates; increased efforts to detect contraband phones 
hidden on prison employees, visitors and inmates; and explored 
the use of wireless detection and monitoring devices that could 
help corrections officials identify and prosecute criminal 
activity.
      To help State and Federal correctional authorities 
address this growing national problem, the conferees direct the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration at 
the Department of Commerce, in coordination with the Federal 
Communications Commission, the Federal Bureau of Prisons and 
the National Institute of Justice, to develop a plan to 
investigate and evaluate how wireless jamming, detection and 
other technologies might be utilized for law enforcement and 
corrections applications in Federal and State prison 
facilities. The conferees strongly urge the NTIA, in 
coordination with the FCC, to investigate and evaluate 
detection or other technologies that do not pose a risk of 
negatively affecting commercial wireless and public safety 
services in areas surrounding prisons.

    PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $20,000,000 for Public 
Telecommunications Facilities, Planning and Construction 
(PTFPC). PTFPC has been the primary source for 
telecommunications infrastructure assistance for public radio 
and television stations seeking assistance, particularly in 
under-served rural areas. The budget request proposed to 
eliminate the PTFPC program in fiscal year 2010, citing funding 
available through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting 
(CPB). The conferees direct that NTIA work with CPB to provide 
a report that clarifies the funding authorities of the two 
agencies to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $1,887,000,000 for the 
United States Patent and Trade Office (USPTO) for fiscal year 
2010, the same as the revised fee collection projection dated 
September 17, 2009.
      Budget formulation process.--A confluence of factors in 
fiscal year 2009, including depressed revenues, continuing 
declines in the patent allowance rate, recent court decisions, 
and the absence of inflation has highlighted major, 
unacceptable deficiencies in USPTO's budget formulation and 
execution processes. USPTO's financial situation in fiscal year 
2009, while anomalous, may be repeated again. The decision to 
rely solely on fee income has removed USPTO from the safety net 
of the appropriations process and has placed it at the mercy of 
the economy; it has allowed USPTO to build a boom time 
infrastructure that it cannot support in an economic downturn. 
Complicating and contributing to this situation is the fact 
that USPTO's budget formulation process does not reflect the 
agency's resource requirements for the relevant fiscal year. 
Fiscal year 2010 will likely present a new and more daunting 
set of financial challenges for the agency and achievement of 
key performance measures will likely continue to decline.
      The conferees note that although USPTO is a fee-funded 
agency, USPTO's budget development process should not be 
markedly different from other Federal agencies, at least 
initially. Yet today, the USPTO is unable to produce a clear 
and concise statement of resources needed to operate 
independent of the agency's estimate of projected revenues. 
Whatever advantages the current funding arrangement confers to 
the agency and its constituencies, the current state of budget 
formulation, execution and management at the USPTO cannot 
continue.
      USPTO must develop and present a requirements-based 
budget to ensure transparency to the Congress, the 
Administration and to USPTO's stakeholders. To convey more 
fully USPTO's spending requirements, the conferees direct that, 
in addition to the budget request, the annual USPTO budget 
submission, beginning with the fiscal year 2011 submission, 
shall contain the following items, separately identified, for 
the budget year: (1) an estimate of a current services baseline 
consistent with the Budget Enforcement Act (BEA) requirements; 
(2) any changes to that baseline from expected workload 
changes; (3) any changes from proposed initiatives to improve 
performance; and (4) any proposed user fee changes and their 
expected additional revenues needed to fund the budget request.
      Provision of fee collection projections.--The conferees 
direct the UPSTO to provide quarterly reports on its fee 
collection projections and to notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations during any month when significant 
changes in such projections prompt serious concern or require 
drastic budgetary responses. In addition, the conferees direct 
the USPTO to provide official revised fee estimates for fiscal 
year 2011 to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
no later than September 1, 2010.
      Reprogramming and spend plan.--The conferees understand 
that in several recent fiscal years, the USPTO has used excess 
fee collections in the current year to forward fund 
requirements in the budget year. The conferees note that the 
funding appropriated in any fiscal year is intended to fund 
costs in only that fiscal year. Therefore, funds appropriated 
in this Act for fiscal year 2010 are provided only for fiscal 
year 2010 operating costs. The USPTO is required to follow the 
reprogramming procedures outlined in section 505 of this Act 
before using excess fee collections to forward fund expenses 
beyond fiscal year 2010. Any deviations from the funding 
distribution provided for in this Act, including carryover 
balances, are subject to the standard reprogramming procedures 
set forth in section 505 of this Act. In addition, 60 days 
after enactment of this Act, the USPTO shall submit to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a spending plan 
for fiscal year 2010. This spending plan shall incorporate all 
carryover balances from previous fiscal years, and describe any 
changes to the patent or trademark fee structure. Any changes 
from the spending plan shall also be subject to section 505 of 
this Act.
      Patent pendency and backlog.--The conferees remain 
concerned by the lack of progress toward reducing patent 
pendency and the overall patent backlog. The increasing backlog 
is the result of a number of factors, including the significant 
decrease in number of patents approved; the practical effect of 
the increasing numbers of requests for continued examination 
(RCE); and the fact that applicants are filing in more than one 
jurisdiction.
      The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has found that 
the hiring of additional patent examiners has not been 
sufficient to reverse the patent pendency and backlog trend and 
the recent and projected decrease in fee collections makes it 
clear that the USPTO will not be able to rely on additional 
hiring as a method to reduce the backlog. The conferees direct 
USPTO to enhance its efforts to reduce duplication of work 
already performed by another patent office in a manner that 
does not compromise the quality of the examination or 
compromise the sovereignty of the United States. The conferees 
also direct USPTO to develop and implement strategies to combat 
the unintended consequences of RCEs and the effect of the drop 
in patent application approvals. USPTO shall provide a report 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on its 
progress in these areas within 90 days of enactment of this 
Act.
      Patent Examiners.--The conferees are encouraged by the 
Administration's recent actions to evaluate out-dated and 
unreasonable productivity goals, but remain concerned about 
workforce turnover at the agency. The Director, working with 
management and employees, recently completed an evaluation of 
the work productivity goals, which have been cited by many 
former patent examiners as a major reason for their departure. 
USPTO is directed to continue a thorough and independent 
evaluation exploring all workforce management and turnover 
issues, and is directed to provide a preliminary, if not final, 
report within 120 days of enactment of this Act outlining 
substantial changes and milestones to improve employee 
retention.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

      The conference agreement provides $856,600,000 for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for 
fiscal year 2010.

             SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND SERVICES

      The conference agreement provides $515,000,000 for NIST's 
scientific and technical core programs. Up to $9,000,000 may be 
transferred from the Scientific and Technical Research and 
Services (STRS) account to the Working Capital Fund, which NIST 
uses to purchase equipment for its laboratories.

    SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND SERVICES, DIRECT OBLIGATIONS

        Program                                               Conference
Laboratories and technical programs.....................    $446,867,000
Congressionally-designated projects/activities..........      10,500,000
Innovations in measurement science......................      20,199,000
Next generation measurements training...................      11,030,000
Baldridge National Quality Program......................       9,627,000
Corporate Services......................................      16,777,000
Total STRS..............................................     515,000,000

      The conferees approve NIST's new budget structure 
consolidating all the functions of its laboratory research 
program under one budget activity. Any deviation from amounts 
specified in spend plans or reports for particular labs and 
technical programs, or the use of de-obligated funds shall be 
subject to reprogramming procedures set forth in sections 103 
and 505 of this Act.
      Within available resources, the conference agreement 
fully funds the requested increase for a comprehensive national 
cyber security initiative. NIST is directed to expand its 
biodiversity storage capabilities and resources into the 
Pacific region through a Pacific Islands component and the 
conference agreement provides $750,000 for this purpose.
      The conference agreement includes funding within the 
amounts provided for Strategic Measurement Partnerships for the 
activities listed below:


      The conferees direct NIST to refrain from charging 
administrative costs to these grants and expect that the agency 
will provide appropriate management and oversight of each 
grant.

                     INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

      The conference agreement provides $194,600,000. Of this 
amount, $124,700,000 is provided for the Manufacturing 
Extension Partnerships (MEP) and $69,900,000 is provided for 
the Technology Innovation Program (TIP). Within MEP, NIST and 
its partners are directed to consider the importance automation 
plays in accelerating and integrating manufacturing processes 
across all levels of industry.

                  CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES

      The conference agreement provides $147,000,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be available for a competitive construction 
grant program and $80,000,000 for the highest priority 
construction and safety, capacity, maintenance, and major 
repair (SCMMR) projects at NIST. Within funding provided, the 
conferees encourage the agency to maintain an appropriate SCMMR 
funding level.
      Competitive construction grants.--Within the 
appropriation, the conference agreement provides $20,000,000 
for competitive construction grants for research science 
buildings in fiscal year 2010. The conferees note that in just 
the first year of the program, the fiscal year 2008 call for 
proposals yielded 93 requests, of which only three were funded 
due to limited appropriations. The conferees expect the 
Administration to include funding for this competitive program 
in future requests as these research science buildings leverage 
additional public and private funding, provide jobs, and 
improve science research in the Nation.
      The conferees direct NIST to provide quarterly reports on 
the status of all construction projects funded under this 
appropriation to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
      The conference agreement provides $47,000,000 for the 
activities listed below.


      The conferees direct NIST to refrain from charging 
administrative costs to these grants. The conferees expect that 
NIST will provide appropriate management and oversight of each 
grant.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

      The conferees provide a total of $4,737,531,000 in 
discretionary appropriations for the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides a total program level 
of $3,412,778,000 under this account for the coastal, 
fisheries, marine, weather, satellite and other programs of 
NOAA. This total funding level includes $3,305,178,000 in 
direct appropriations; a transfer of $104,600,000 from balances 
in the ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research 
Pertaining to American Fisheries'' account; and a transfer of 
$3,000,000 from the Coastal Zone Management Fund.
      Within this amount, the conference agreement provides 
funds for congressionally-directed activities listed within the 
obligation tables for each line office, and directs NOAA to 
refrain from charging administrative costs to these grants. The 
conferees expect that NOAA will provide appropriate management 
and oversight of each grant.
      The following narrative descriptions and tables identify 
the specific activities and funding levels included in this 
Act:
      National Ocean Service (NOS).--The conference agreement 
provides $522,220,000 for NOS operations, research and 
facilities.
      Mapping and charting.--The conference agreement provides 
$49,487,000 for mapping and charting, of which $750,000 is 
provided for the development and demonstration of unmanned 
surface vehicles for hydrographic survey operations.
      Tide and current data.--The conference agreement provides 
an additional $3,800,000 above the request to support fully the 
entire design, installation, maintenance, and operations of the 
Physical Oceanographic Real-Time System (PORTS), as authorized 
by Public Law 107-372.
      Regional geospatial modeling grants.--The conference 
agreement provides $5,500,000 to continue funding for this 
competitive program for researchers and resource managers to 
develop models or geographic information systems using existing 
geodetic, coastal remote sensing data, terrestrial gravity 
measurements, or other physical datasets.
      Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS).--The conference 
agreement provides a total of $33,555,000 for IOOS, of which 
$6,555,000 is for program administration; $20,000,000 is for a 
competitive, regional ocean observing systems solicitation; 
$4,000,000 is for a competitive extramural regional test bed 
for the Atlantic and Gulf coasts described in the Senate 
report, for which NOAA shall outline this effort's approach and 
timeline in its fiscal year 2010 operating plan; and $3,000,000 
is for a consortium for testing and advancing new sensor 
technologies. NOAA is directed to report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations within 30 days of enactment 
of this Act on the feasibility of establishing a cooperative 
institute for the purpose of advancing and sustaining this 
essential capability and its inclusion in future requests.
      Coral reef programs.--Given the magnitude of the effect 
of climate change on coral reefs worldwide and the vital role 
that coral reefs play in protecting the Nation's beaches, 
sustaining fisheries and providing other economic benefits, the 
conference agreement provides $29,000,000 for the coral reef 
program, which includes $2,273,000 in competitive funding above 
the request for external coral reef institute partners. In 
awarding this competitive funding, the conferees encourage NOAA 
to consider comparative regional needs, geographic scope, 
historic funding levels and other available funding. The 
conferees direct NOAA to include base funding for the external 
coral reef institutes in future budget requests.
      Response and restoration.--The conference agreement 
includes $27,134,000 for response and restoration, which 
provides $3,000,000 for estuary restoration and $9,300,000 for 
damage assessment and restoration. The conference agreement 
provides an additional $1,000,000 for the Office of Response 
and Restoration, working jointly with the Office of National 
Marine Sanctuaries, to solicit a one-time independent 
assessment of potential man-made undersea threats that could 
impact coastal and Great Lakes States.
      Coastal Zone Management (CZM) grants.--The conference 
agreement provides $2,000,000 above the request, and NOAA is 
directed to use a portion of the increase provided for a 
competitive program for efforts to modernize and improve State 
information systems to assess, track and manage permitting and 
land-use tracking procedures.
      National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS).--The 
conference agreement provides an increase of $1,174,000 above 
the request for the NERRS operations.


      National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS).--The conference 
agreement provides $904,539,000 for NMFS operations, research 
and facilities.
      Protected species research and management.--The 
conference agreement provides $15,623,000 for the species 
recovery grants program. The conferees concur with the need for 
increased funding for endangered, threatened, and at-risk 
marine species.
      Marine mammals, marine turtles, and marine protected 
species.--The conference agreement provides total funding of 
$4,275,000 for Hawaiian Monk Seal activities; $7,800,000 for 
Hawaiian Sea Turtle and incident take activities; and 
$1,500,000 for the study and protection of cetaceans in the 
Pacific.
      The conferees encourage NOAA to demonstrate and utilize 
biological pattern recognition technology where appropriate for 
tagging fish or threatened or endangered animal species.
      Fisheries research and management.--The conference 
agreement provides $424,717,000 for fisheries research and 
management. Within this amount, $190,883,000 is recommended for 
fisheries research and management programs. Within the amounts 
provided, the conference agreement includes a programmatic 
increase of $750,000 for regulation activities associated with 
the Pacific Marine Monuments.
      Magnuson-Stevens Reauthorization Act (MSRA).--The 
conference agreement provides all requested increases for MSRA 
requirements. These funds are necessary to prevent fisheries 
collapses and obviate the need for disaster funding. The 
conferees recognize the need to ensure sustainable fisheries. 
Within amounts provided, funding is designated to implement a 
sector-based management approach for New England and to 
transition to catch shares, a new tool that provides 
flexibility for fishermen while maintaining sustainability. 
Funding is provided to support the costs of expanded stock 
assessments and for regional councils that make recommendations 
on annual catch limits (ACLs).
      The conference agreement also provides funding to 
continue development of a State-Federal national registry 
program for marine recreational fishing participants, and to 
expand commercial fisheries' biological sampling programs and 
electronic reporting of commercial fisheries' landings. In 
addition, the conferees direct NMFS to provide a report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act on recreational fishing under catch share 
program management. Specifically, the report shall include how 
data collection for recreational catches will improve in 
fisheries where the commercial sector receives catch shares; 
and how allocation conflicts between recreational and 
commercial sectors will be resolved.
      Economic and social science research.--The conference 
agreement includes the requested increase to address 
significant economic and social science research data gaps in 
major Federal fisheries that are crucial to developing support 
tools to conduct MSRA-mandated cost-benefit analyses of 
regulatory options, such as ACLs and limited access privilege 
programs (LAPPs). These resources will allow the affected 
regions to provide input and engage in solutions in their own 
sectors, and to forge new relationships between the regions and 
NMFS.
      Salmon management activities.--An increase of $10,000,000 
above the request is provided to begin implementation of 
reforms developed by the Hatchery Scientific Review Group to 
operate these facilities in a manner more conducive to salmon 
recovery.
      Enforcement.--The conference agreement provides the 
requested increase to fund the enforcement requirements of the 
MSRA. The conference recommendation includes a total of 
$1,500,000 to continue installing electronic logbooks on shrimp 
boats to monitor and reduce bycatch; end overfishing; rebuild 
overfished stocks such as red snapper; and ensure the 
sustainability of shrimp fisheries. The conferees note that 
this program is inherent to NOAA's core mission and 
implementation of current shrimp fishery regulations, and 
expect that sufficient funding will be reflected in future 
budget requests.
      Observer/training.--The conference agreement provides the 
requested MSRA increase for implementation of annual catch 
limits. This includes supplementing observer coverage in three 
fisheries, including the Gulf of Mexico reef fish fishery, and 
will implement pilot programs for three additional fisheries. 
The conference agreement also provides an increase above the 
request of $3,015,000 for the Hawaiian Longline Observer 
Program.
      Gulf coast management activities.--The conferees 
encourage NOAA to solicit, evaluate and incorporate independent 
fishery data when developing fishery regulations, and to create 
a thorough report detailing the potential economic impact any 
new restrictions would have on Gulf of Mexico communities 
before moving forward with any changes impacting the red 
snapper fishery.
      Habitat conservation and restoration.--The conference 
agreement provides a total of $27,967,000 for fisheries habitat 
restoration. Within this amount, $18,600,000 is provided for 
the community based restoration program and $7,034,000 is 
provided for the open rivers program.
      Other activities.--The conference agreement provides 
$500,000 for fishery demonstration projects that develop and 
protect traditional fishing practices in communities 
represented on the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council.
      The conferees recognize the importance of ongoing 
surfclam and ocean quahog surveys to sustainable fisheries 
management and encourages NOAA to work closely with 
stakeholders on this matter.
      Regional studies: Chesapeake Bay.--The conferees direct 
NOAA's Chesapeake Bay Office to continue to collaborate with 
the States of Maryland and Virginia, and to continue to utilize 
the Sea Grant programs from both States in developing the 
program to advance multiple species management by focusing on 
blue crabs, oysters, and other resource species.
      Chesapeake Bay oyster restoration.--The conference 
agreement provides $3,000,000 for oyster restoration in the 
Chesapeake Bay. Of these funds, $2,000,000 is provided for 
oyster restoration in the Maryland waters of the Chesapeake Bay 
which shall be for on-the-ground and in-the-water restoration 
efforts, and $1,000,000 of these funds is for oyster 
restoration in Virginia waters of the Chesapeake Bay. Funds 
shall not be used for administrative costs, including banquets 
or salaries.
      Alaskan marine mammal protection.--With regard to 
congressionally-designated funding for the Indigenous People's 
Council for Marine Mammals (IPCoMM), the conferees expect NOAA 
to assist IPCoMM in developing a competitive process to 
allocate new co-management funding provided in this Act.


      Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR).--The conference 
agreement includes $438,766,000 for OAR operations, research 
and facilities. The conferees provide additional support for 
activities appropriately conducted by a national climate 
service and direct the agency to accelerate its current efforts 
towards the creation of such an entity.
      The conferees direct NOAA to enter into a contract with 
the National Academy of Public Administration (NAPA) within 60 
days after the enactment of this Act for a study and analysis 
of organizational options for a National Climate Service within 
NOAA, emphasizing maximum effectiveness and efficiency. The 
study should consider how to provide information at the global, 
regional, and State levels over varying timescales; support 
interaction among the government and various users, 
stakeholders, researchers, and information providers of climate 
information in both the private and public sectors; develop and 
distribute products and information that will support decision-
making to better prepare the Nation for climate variability and 
climate change; coordinate and align existing programs and 
resources internal and external to NOAA to reduce duplications 
and leverage existing climate-related resources; and provide 
estimates on projected funding levels. The study shall be 
completed no later than 120 days after the contract is awarded.
      Climate research.--The conference agreement provides 
$221,040,000 for climate research. Within the recommendation, 
the conferees provide $9,000,000 for climate assessment 
services to synthesize, evaluate and report on climate change 
research findings; evaluate the effects of climate variability 
and change for different regions and sectors; and identify 
climate vulnerabilities and uncertainties as part of an ongoing 
effort to understand what climate change means for the United 
States. The recommendation also includes $2,200,000 to continue 
chemical climate research important to climate modeling and 
atmospheric science research.
      Weather and air quality research.--The conference 
agreement includes $650,000 above the request for 
instrumentation and operation of state-of-the-art monitoring of 
nutrients and mercury speciation measurement stations and 
laboratories.
      Ocean, Coastal and Great Lakes research.--The conferees 
encourage NOAA to conduct long-term ice cover and water level 
outlooks for the Great Lakes and to report on the impact of 
climate change on the habitats, fish and wildlife, commerce, 
recreational opportunities and water supply of the Great Lakes.
      The conferees direct NOAA to provide a report on the 
potential of ocean fertilization for climate change mitigation 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 60 
days of enactment of this Act, and encourage NOAA to support 
further research, as appropriate, within funds provided.
      Laboratories and cooperative institutes.--The conference 
agreement provides a total of $26,340,000 for laboratories and 
cooperative institutes, of which $4,500,000 is for the Northern 
Gulf Institute (NGI). The NGI is a cooperative institute that 
was solicited and competitively selected by NOAA to develop 
regional approaches to ecosystem management and research the 
interface between human, watershed, coast, ocean, and 
atmosphere continuums. The Gulf region is a significant 
contributor to the Nation's economy, and NOAA's own data shows 
that the Gulf experiences the highest frequency of severe 
weather and is affected by more disasters than any other 
region. Therefore, the conferees expect NOAA to provide 
adequate base funding for this activity in future budget 
requests.
      National Sea Grant College Program.--The conference 
agreement provides $63,000,000, of which $4,800,000 is for 
marine aquaculture research and $2,000,000 is for aquatic 
invasive species research; both activities shall be coordinated 
by NOAA's Sea Grant office. The conferees recognize the 
important role the Sea Grant program plays in connecting 
coastal and Great Lakes communities with practical research and 
results, and encourage the growth of this program in future 
budget requests.
      Ocean exploration.--The conference agreement funds the 
ocean exploration program and the national undersea research 
program separately, as they are two distinct authorizations in 
the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act (Public Law 111-11). 
The conferees provide $3,000,000 in additional funding to 
support further ongoing operations in the Pacific and to 
advance exploration in the Indian Ocean.


      National Weather Service (NWS).--The conference agreement 
provides $892,118,000 for National Weather Service operations, 
research and facilities. This includes the requested increase 
of $10,000,000 to accelerate significantly the improvement of 
hurricane track and intensity forecasts and fully funds the 
request for the Center for Weather and Climate Prediction 
operations.
      Aviation weather.--The conferees are concerned about the 
plans under consideration by the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) and the NWS to restructure the way 
aviation weather services are provided at en route centers that 
require the consolidation of weather service offices. GAO's 
September 2009 report on this issue recommended that the 
Departments of Commerce and Transportation document baseline 
performance for several measures and take steps to address the 
significant challenges that FAA and NWS face to improve the 
current aviation weather structure. The conferees direct NWS to 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act on steps taken to 
implement GAO's recommendations and the consequences, if any, 
of plans to restructure aviation weather services.
      National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP).--
The conferees encourage NCEP to continue to improve the 
performance of its computer modeling for weather, climate, 
hydrological and ocean prediction to ensure U.S. forecasting 
capabilities lead the world. The conferees encourage NCEP to 
draw fully upon the resources of the U.S. academic community to 
better implement emerging scientific and technological 
advances.
      National mesonet program.--The conference agreement 
provides $19,000,000 for continuation and expansion of the 
national mesonet program. Funds shall be allocated as follows: 
(1) $8,000,000 to maintain data procurements from existing 
surface in situ mesonet observations, including those 
observations added as a result of the fiscal year 2009 
expansion of the national mesonet program; (2) $5,500,000 for 
competitive expansion of the national mesonet program to 
include integration of additional surface in situ observational 
data from existing networks, with 75 percent of the funds for 
data acquisition from urban and 25 percent from non-urban 
(rural, mountainous, and coastal) areas; (3) $500,000 for the 
national mesonet program office for program oversight and data 
utilization initiatives; (4) $3,500,000 for the continued 
development and expansion of the Mobile Platform Environment 
(MoPED) System pilot program to ensure that mobile platform 
environmental data is available to support efforts of the NWS 
and Meteorological Assimilation Data Ingest System (MADIS); and 
(5) $1,000,000 for data validation tools for quality control 
and network monitoring and reliability, with up to $500,000 of 
these funds for MADIS expansion. The conferees expect NOAA to 
include in its fiscal year 2011 budget a robust and expanded 
national mesonet program, as called for by the National 
Research Council. Further, the conferees note that NOAA was 
required to submit a plan 90 days after enactment of the fiscal 
year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act on implementation of the 
national mesonet program, a deadline with which the agency has 
not complied. The conferees expect this plan to be submitted 
within 30 days of the enactment of this Act.
      National Weather Service.--The conferees direct that NOAA 
contract with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct an 
assessment of the now completed NWS modernization. During the 
1980s and 1990s NOAA launched a major program to modernize the 
NWS, investing $5,000,000,000 to modernize NWS technologies to 
advance weather forecasting. However, a complete assessment of 
the entire end-to-end NWS modernization enterprise has not been 
completed. The conferees require a report that not only 
addresses the past modernization, but also focuses on lessons 
learned to support future improvements to NWS capabilities. The 
report shall address high-impact weather and new science and 
technologies that allow for even better forecasts; the 
integration of new technologies and better models into NWS 
operations; and improving current partnerships with private 
industry, academia and other governmental agencies.
      Williston radar.--The conferees remain concerned about 
the ability of the NWS to forecast weather adequately, 
especially snow events, without the Williston radar. NOAA is 
directed to continue operations and staffing at the Williston 
Radar Station until independent research substantiates that any 
other radars in the forecast area can provide coverage for all 
light and heavy weather activity in the region.


      National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information 
Service (NESDIS).--The conference agreement provides 
$199,165,000 for NESDIS operations, research and facilities.
      Data centers and information services.--The conference 
agreement provides $67,255,000. This level includes $10,000,000 
for climate data records (CDRs) to ensure the availability of 
authoritative climate reference data upon which to base 
investments and strategic plans; and additional funding for 
environmental data archiving, access and assessment activities.
      Regional climate centers (RCCs).--The conference 
agreement provides a total of $4,350,000 for RCCs.
      Scatterometer.--The conferees direct NOAA, together with 
NASA which is similarly directed, to continue co-funding joint 
studies within available funds that should lead to a fiscal 
year 2011 request to build and fly an operational scatterometer 
providing sea surface vector wind measurements. NOAA should 
aggressively pursue negotiations to secure a flight opportunity 
for this instrument that is both reliable and timely.


      Program support (PS).--The conference agreement provides 
$455,970,000 for PS operations, research and facilities.
      IT security.--The conference agreement provides 
$7,000,000 for NOAA's new cyber security and email 
communications system. This system is needed to reduce NOAA's 
high vulnerability to cyber threat and to ensure that NOAA's 
observing and modeling systems provide high quality information 
for continuous public use. The conferees note that funds 
provided in fiscal year 2009 were diverted without notification 
and NOAA has not requested adequate funds for these critical 
efforts in the current request. The conferees direct the agency 
to provide a detailed spend plan for all IT expenditures within 
30 days of enactment of this Act, including funds from all 
sources. In addition, the conferees expect that future budget 
requests will include descriptions of significant IT 
expenditures and appropriate request levels, and that NOAA will 
follow the reprogramming procedures outlined in section 505 of 
this Act, as appropriate.
      NOAA education program.--The conferees strongly support 
NOAA's education programs to increase environmental and ocean 
literacy and the conference agreement includes $38,523,000 to 
ensure a robust program. Within funding provided, $12,000,000 
is for competitive educational grants, of which $8,000,000 is 
to increase the number of successful applications, and 
$4,000,000 is to continue the ocean education initiative 
created in fiscal year 2009. NOAA is also encouraged to support 
informal education partnership efforts to use new online 
broadband and digital media technologies to improve STEM 
education related to weather, climate, the Great Lakes and the 
ocean.
      GLOBE.--The conference agreement provides $3,000,000 for 
the GLOBE Program. The conferees recognize NOAA's past role in 
GLOBE and direct NOAA to support the OSTP review of the program 
and to work cooperatively with NASA and NSF on this interagency 
program.
      Marine operations.--The conference agreement provides 
$120,125,000, which includes $2,500,000 for purchase and 
installation of an integrated vessel electronics bridge system 
for any ships or boats within NOAA.
      Justification improvement.--The conferees direct NOAA to 
work with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations to 
reformat its justification into a more useable and user-
friendly document, starting with the fiscal year 2011 
submission. The conferees note the lack of funding 
transparency, justification for base programs, and other cross-
cutting information, including the lack of personnel costs.
      GAO report on management and administration costs.--The 
conferees note NOAA's inability to identify the costs of 
administering NOAA's programs and direct GAO to identify 
salaries and expenses within each line item of the NOAA budget 
and explain how agency, line office, and program management and 
administration costs are financed. The conferees expect that 
the report be completed within one year and that a preliminary 
report be prepared and presented to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations by May 3, 2010.
      Research and development (R&D) tracking and outcomes.--
The conferees continue their direction that NOAA track the 
division of R&D funds between intramural and extramural 
research, and assure consistency and clarity in the collection 
and reporting of data. NOAA is directed to clearly state its 
expected research outcomes and available funding in order to 
provide transparency into the competitive grant process for 
extramural researchers. The conferees further direct NOAA to 
increase extramural research funding in future requests to 
build broad community support and leverage external funding for 
mission-oriented research.
      Laboratories and cooperative institutes.--Within 60 days 
of enactment of this Act, NOAA is directed to provide the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report detailing the 
status of existing and expected regional cooperative institutes 
including current and planned funding and activities on a 
program by program basis. This report should make clear the 
programmatic origin of existing funding and contain an 
explanation of how NOAA expects to use these institutes in the 
future.
      Commercial satellites.--The conferees direct NOAA to 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act on how the agency could 
benefit from acquiring space-based scientific data from 
commercial sources over the next three years, its plans to 
obtain such data, and an analysis of expected availability.


               PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement includes a total program level 
of $1,360,353,000 in direct obligations under this heading, of 
which $1,358,353,000 is appropriated from the general fund and 
$2,000,000 is derived from recoveries of prior year 
obligations.
      The bill includes language making any deviation from 
amounts designated for specific activities in this report, or 
any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this 
heading in previous years subject to the reprogramming 
procedures set forth in section 505.
      National Ocean Service (NOS).--The recommendation 
includes $36,890,000 for NOS acquisition and construction. This 
includes $5,000,000 above the request for the coastal and 
estuarine land conservation (CELCP) program. As a result of the 
Omnibus Public Lands Act, no less than 15 percent of CELCP 
funds shall be available for acquisitions benefitting National 
Estuarine Research Reserves System (NERRS). The conference 
agreement funds the NERRS Acquisition and Construction account 
at the request of $3,890,000, which provides a total of 
$6,890,000 for NERRS.
      Great Lakes restoration initiative.--The conferees 
understand that NOAA is expected to receive funding through the 
Environmental Protection Agency for the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative, including funds for land conservation projects. The 
conferees expect that this external funding will supplement, 
not replace, funding provided in this Act for CELCP projects, 
and the existence of this additional funding source shall not 
affect NOAA's consideration of proposals under the CELCP 
program.
      National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information 
Service (NESDIS).--The recommendation includes $1,199,357,000 
for NESDIS acquisition and construction. The conference 
agreement reduces the total funding provided for satellite 
acquisition and construction in recognition of reduced 
requirements for GOES-R resulting from delays in awarding the 
ground system contract.
      National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental 
Satellite System (NPOESS).--The conferees are concerned that 
NPOESS' management structure, potential growth in the projected 
life-cycle cost of more than $15,000,000,000, and repeated 
schedule delays portend an unacceptably high risk of weather 
and climate satellite observation gaps. Recognizing that this 
satellite program is critical to forecasting the Nation's 
weather, the conferees' recommendation fully funds the NPOESS 
budget request for 2010 based on current information. However, 
the budget request does not reflect the true need and the 
program's long-term projections for success remain in doubt. In 
fact, to date this experiment in combining disparate elements 
has been a horrendous and costly failure.
      A recent independent review team tasked with assessing 
all aspects of the program found many overarching flaws, 
ultimately determining that NPOESS is a program with a low 
probability of success. A June 2009 GAO report found that the 
NPOESS Executive Committee responsible for overseeing the 
program lacks the membership and leadership needed to 
effectively and efficiently oversee and direct the program. The 
conferees note that this situation has been developing for some 
time and is the result of a dysfunctional tri-agency management 
approach.
      Yet decisions made now--including delays or postponements 
of decisions--have long-term consequences for both the 
sustained robustness of the operational observing system and 
for the Nation's industrial capacity. Nothing short of an 
immediate and out-of-the-box solution will do. The program 
needs a cooperative solution that will take advantage of the 
strengths of the three agencies involved, sustain the 
integrated operations of the various satellites, and should not 
be based on financial projections that have proven to be 
consistently and abysmally unreliable.
      NOAA is encouraged to request appropriate contingency 
funding to avoid delays and additional management and 
industrial policy challenges when programmatic funding is 
diverted to solve an imminent crisis. In addition, NOAA is 
encouraged to request funding for and to develop back up 
capabilities to ensure continuity of climatological 
observations. Accordingly, the conference agreement removes the 
50/50 NOAA/DoD funding split requirement to allow for more 
creative funding decisions to avert the critical climate and 
weather gaps that are sure to occur if a management solution is 
not identified soon.
      Changes to the overall management structure are also 
needed to bring the program back in line, which includes 
modifying existing relationships between NOAA, the Department 
of Defense, and the contractor and enlisting more help from an 
agency with real space acquisition experience, such as NASA. 
Furthermore, a clear line of authority embodied in a project 
manager with the ability to make timely and cost effective 
decisions and avoid further delays is crucial.
      Finally, the conferees direct NESDIS to employ NASA cost 
analysis capabilities, and in consultation with the Office of 
the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Cost Analysis Improvement Group 
(CAIG), to perform an independent cost analysis of all 
programmatic and acquisition alternatives at the 80 percent 
confidence level, and to include management structure change 
options. The conferees direct NOAA to report these findings and 
recommendations to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations along with all appropriate congressional 
oversight committees no later than January 4, 2010.
      Comprehensive large array stewardship system (CLASS).--
The conference agreement includes $18,476,000 for CLASS. Of 
these funds, $5,500,000 is for maintenance, operations, and 
implementation of enhancements from development activity, and 
$12,976,000 is for contracted development, with project 
administration and oversight to be at NOAA's National Climatic 
Data Center.
      NOAA Cooperative Institute and Research Center for 
Southeast Weather and Hydrology.--The conference agreement 
provides $14,000,000 for the continued construction of a 
research facility and weather related instrumentation and 
equipment to address the impact of severe weather in the 
Southeast.
      The conference agreement provides funding for 
congressionally-designated activities listed within the 
obligation table for the PAC appropriation and directs NOAA to 
refrain from charging administrative costs to these grants. The 
conferees expect that NOAA will provide appropriate management 
and oversight of each grant.


                    PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY

      The conference agreement includes $80,000,000 for Pacific 
Coastal Salmon Recovery.

                      COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes language transferring 
not to exceed $3,000,000 from the Coastal Zone Management Fund 
to the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities Account.''

                   FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement includes language under this 
heading limiting obligations of direct loans to $16,000,000 for 
Individual Fishing Quota loans.

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $58,000,000 for 
Departmental Management.
      Climate change.--The conferees are concerned that local 
and regional governments and the private sector of the United 
States make wise and timely investments to adapt to climate 
changes that will occur based on continuing growth in the 
amounts of atmospheric greenhouse gases. The conferees direct 
the Secretary of Commerce to develop a plan for how the needs 
of the private sector and local and State governments, as users 
of specific and tailored climate forecasts, will be addressed 
by new investments in climate services funded in this Act, and 
how a National Climate Service could incorporate the needs for 
such forecasts, if established. This plan is to be reported to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations by April 1, 
2010.
      Minority serving institutions digital and wireless 
opportunity program.--Not later than 60 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report describing the 
Department's plans to support and assist minority serving 
institutions (MSI) in improving their instrumentation, 
connectivity, hardware and software for instructional and 
research purposes as contemplated by the amendments to the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980. The 
conferees also encourage the Secretary to work with the MSI 
national stakeholder organizations in developing such 
strategies.
      Justification improvement.--The conferees direct the 
Department to work with the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations to reformat all Commerce justifications into 
more useable and user-friendly documents, starting with the 
fiscal year 2011 submission.
      Departmental oversight.--The conferees direct the 
Department to develop oversight capacity of the USPTO, and to 
track fee collections and other pertinent policy and economic 
impacts, to avoid budgetary shortfalls, and ensure that the 
Department and the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations are fully informed on funding issues.

        HERBERT C. HOOVER BUILDING RENOVATION AND MODERNIZATION

      The conference agreement provides $22,500,000 for 
continued renovation of the Herbert C. Hoover Building.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $27,000,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) for fiscal year 2010. Within 
funds provided, the Office of Inspector General shall continue 
to conduct audits and oversight of the USPTO.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

      The conference agreement includes the following general 
provisions for the Department of Commerce:
      Section 101 makes funds available for advanced payments 
only upon certification of officials designated by the 
Secretary that such payments are considered to be in the public 
interest.
      Section 102 makes appropriations for the Department for 
salaries and expenses available for hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, for services, and for uniforms and allowances as 
authorized by law.
      Section 103 provides the authority to transfer funds 
between Department of Commerce appropriation accounts and 
requires notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of certain actions.
      Section 104 provides that any costs incurred by the 
Department in response to funding reductions shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available to the 
Department and shall be subject to the reprogramming 
limitations set forth in this Act.
      Section 105 extends Congressional notification 
requirements for the GOES-R satellite program.
      Section 106 provides for the reimbursement for services 
within Department of Commerce buildings.
      Section 107 provides authority for Secretary of Commerce 
to negotiate or re-evaluate international agreements related to 
fisheries, marine mammals, or sea turtles.
      Section 108 extends the authority of the Emergency Steel 
Loan Guarantee Program for two years.
      Section 109 clarifies that grant recipients under the 
Department of Commerce may continue to deter child pornography, 
copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over 
their networks.
      Section 110 provides the Administrator with the authority 
to avail NOAA of needed resources, with the consent of those 
supplying the resources, to carry out responsibilities of any 
statute administered by NOAA.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $118,488,000 for 
General Administration, Salaries and Expenses.
      Post-Guantanamo activities.--The conference agreement 
does not include the $60,000,000 requested for the anticipated 
costs of detaining, prosecuting and incarcerating individuals 
transferred from the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay.
      Reports to the Committees on Appropriations.--The 
conferees note that the Department has been delinquent in the 
delivery of multiple reports requested in the explanatory 
statement accompanying the Omnibus Appropriations Act for 
fiscal year 2009. These reports were requested by the 
Committees to provide additional information and analysis 
necessary for the conduct of appropriate oversight and to 
assist the Committees in determining funding levels for fiscal 
year 2010. While the presidential transition process likely 
played a role in these delays, the Department is still 
responsible for meeting congressionally-imposed deadlines.
      At the suggestion of the Department, the conferees have 
made all reports required in this fiscal year 2010 statement 
due 120 days after the enactment of this Act. Because the 
Department has provided assurances that a 120 day deadline is 
both reasonable and achievable, the conferees fully expect the 
Department to meet the deadline for all required reports in 
fiscal year 2010.
      Emerging telecommunications technologies.--The Attorney 
General (AG) is directed to report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the enactment 
of this Act on whether the Department has the resources needed 
to preserve law enforcement's electronic surveillance 
capabilities in the face of emerging communication 
technologies, such as third and fourth generation 
communications networks. If sufficient resources do not exist, 
the AG is directed to provide recommendations on the resources 
needed to ensure that Federal, as well as State and local, law 
enforcement agencies maintain the technological capabilities to 
conduct successful electronic surveillance.
      Reducing crime in Indian Country.--The conferees direct 
the AG, in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior and 
State and tribal officials, to establish an interagency and 
tribal working group to clarify and resolve investigatory and 
prosecutorial jurisdiction challenges in Indian Country and to 
identify other challenges and needs related to tribal justice 
systems, including secure law enforcement information sharing 
systems. The working group shall develop recommendations on 
streamlining the Federal, State, and tribal response to 
criminal investigations and prosecutions, and shall submit a 
report containing such recommendations to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the enactment 
of this Act.
      The group shall also report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on the declination rate of crimes 
committed in Indian Country, the criteria used to determine 
when a Federal prosecution will be brought and how those 
criteria differ from practices used elsewhere in the United 
States and its territories. The report shall be submitted 
within 120 days of the enactment of this Act.
      Further, the group shall develop protocols for Federal 
law enforcement agencies to notify the appropriate tribal 
officials of the rationale behind any decision to decline to 
initiate an investigation, or to terminate an investigation of 
an alleged violation of Federal law in Indian Country without 
referral for prosecution. This notification should describe the 
type of crime alleged, the status of the perpetrator and the 
status of the victim. These protocols should also ensure that 
United States Attorneys coordinate with tribal prosecutors in 
advance of prosecution deadlines mandated by the statute of 
limitations to permit tribal prosecutors to pursue cases, as 
appropriate, and define the responsibilities of Assistant 
United States Attorneys serving as Tribal Liaisons in order to 
better coordinate the prosecution of crimes on reservations.
      Reducing regulatory backlogs.--The conferees remain 
concerned with the existence of significant regulatory backlogs 
in portions of the Department, particularly the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). While ATF and 
other relevant bureaus hold primary responsibility for getting 
their regulations drafted, reviewed and disposed of in a timely 
manner, the Department also plays a significant role, and 
lengthy delays in the Department's consideration of proposed 
regulations are contributing to the larger timeliness problem. 
The Department is directed to examine its regulatory review 
process (to include processes at the relevant bureaus) and to 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
within 120 days of the enactment of this Act on recommended 
process reforms or resource investments that could shorten the 
total amount of time needed to draft and complete consideration 
of new regulations.
      Combating Gangs.--The 2009 National Gang Threat 
Assessment produced by the Department indicates that gangs pose 
a serious threat to public safety in many communities 
throughout the United States, and are increasingly migrating 
from urban to suburban areas. Gang membership has increased 
more than 20 percent since 2005, and gangs now total more than 
one million members. Gangs are involved in drug trafficking, 
and increasingly, in alien and weapons trafficking. A rising 
number of U.S. gangs are intent on developing working 
relationships with U.S.- and foreign-based drug trafficking 
organizations and other criminal organizations to gain direct 
access to foreign sources of illicit drugs. While the primary 
responsibility for combating gang crime falls on local 
jurisdictions, the Federal government has a critical 
leadership, coordination, and intelligence-sharing role to 
play. The conferees expect the Attorney General to make anti-
gang efforts a top national law enforcement priority, and 
dedicate the resources necessary to reduce violent gang crime. 
Toward this objective, the conference agreement includes an 
increase of $35,000,000 above the request for anti-gang 
activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
      In order to strengthen anti-gang efforts, and in 
accordance with recent Government Accountability Office 
recommendations, the conferees also expect the Attorney General 
to direct DOJ entities to reexamine and reach consensus on 
their roles and responsibilities in anti-gang efforts; to 
develop a Department-wide strategic-level performance measure 
for anti-gang efforts; and to develop more complete and 
accurate reporting of gang-related case information by U.S. 
Attorney Offices. The Department shall report to the Committees 
within 120 days of the enactment of this Act on actions taken 
in response to these GAO recommendations, and presenting a 
comprehensive spending plan for the additional resources 
provided in this Act linked to Department-wide anti-gang 
strategic objectives.
      Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) inquiry.--The 
conferees are aware of an ongoing inquiry by OPR regarding 
Voting Rights Act enforcement. The conferees direct the 
Department to report on the findings of that inquiry, 
including, if applicable, any recommendations for action, at 
the conclusion of the inquiry.
      Preventing contraband cell phone use in prisons.--The 
conferees include a directive under the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration section of 
this explanatory statement requiring that agency to coordinate 
with the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Bureau 
of Prisons (BOP) and the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) to 
develop a plan to investigate and evaluate how wireless 
jamming, detection and other technologies might be utilized for 
law enforcement and corrections applications in Federal and 
State prison facilities. The conferees expect BOP and NIJ to 
fully cooperate in this effort.

                   NATIONAL DRUG INTELLIGENCE CENTER

      The conference agreement provides $44,023,000 for the 
National Drug Intelligence Center.

                 JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY

      The conference agreement provides $88,285,000 for Justice 
Information Sharing Technology.
      Litigation Case Management System (LCMS).--The conference 
agreement does not include funds for the continued deployment 
of LCMS. A reprogramming of funds for LCMS will be considered 
once the Department has completed all of the Inspector 
General's LCMS recommendations and submitted a report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations detailing the 
steps taken to contain cost and schedule overruns.
      Unified Financial Management System (UFMS).--The 
Department is directed to submit a list of specific and 
detailed performance milestones for UFMS development and 
deployment in fiscal year 2010, including dates for planned 
completion. These milestones should be reported to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
enactment of this Act, and quarterly updates should be provided 
on the Department's progress in meeting those milestones.
      Cyber security.--The conference agreement includes 
$27,439,000 to strengthen DOJ's cyber security program. The 
Department is urged to exercise discretion in testing cyber 
security protections to ensure that all relevant players have 
been alerted to the timing of these tests and to minimize any 
potential negative impact on DOJ employees.

            TACTICAL LAW ENFORCEMENT WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $206,143,000 for 
Tactical Law Enforcement Wireless Communications.
      Integrated Wireless Network (IWN).--The conference 
agreement includes an increase of $21,143,000 for the continued 
development and deployment of IWN in high priority regions. 
Consistent with direction in the explanatory statement 
accompanying P.L. 111-8, all funds for IWN should be spent on 
the modernization and improvement of land mobile radio (LMR) 
systems. Secure cellular or data systems and non-LMR tactical 
equipment must be budgeted for and requested separately.
      Performance milestone reporting.--The Department is 
expected to continue submitting quarterly reports on the 
achievement of established performance milestones for the use 
of IWN funds. These reports should reflect the Department's 
progress toward each milestone and the extent to which those 
milestones are being achieved within cost, schedule and 
performance expectations.
      Cross-agency participation.--While supporting the 
broadest possible use of IWN across law enforcement agencies, 
the conferees expect that other agencies using the network will 
assume the full costs of their own participation.

                   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS

      The conference agreement provides $296,685,000 for 
Administrative Review and Appeals.
      Personnel and infrastructure increases.--The conference 
agreement includes $24,253,000 for personnel and infrastructure 
investments needed to efficiently process an increasing 
immigration adjudication caseload. Of this total, $10,250,000 
is for the eWorld document management system to improve the 
Executive Office of Immigration Review's (EOIR) ability to 
store, distribute and archive its files.
      Legal Orientation Program (LOP).--The conference 
agreement includes $6,000,000 for the continued implementation 
and expansion of the LOP. EOIR is encouraged to seek alien-
specific detention costs and duration of detention data from 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in order to develop a more 
accurate estimate of the cost savings to the Federal government 
provided by participation in the LOP.
      Within the LOP total, $2,000,000 is provided for programs 
aimed at the custodians of unaccompanied alien children in 
order to address the custodian's responsibility for the child's 
appearance at all immigration proceedings and to protect the 
child from mistreatment, exploitation and trafficking.
      Competency standards.--The explanatory statement 
accompanying P.L. 111-8 urged EOIR to work with experts and 
interested parties in developing standards and materials for 
judges to use in conducting competency evaluations of persons 
appearing in immigration court. EOIR is directed to report to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 120 
days of the enactment of this Act on the status of its efforts 
to develop this competency bench book. The report should also 
address the steps DOJ has taken to provide safeguards for the 
rights of aliens judged to be mentally incompetent, as required 
by 8 U.S.C. 1229a(b)(3).
      Fraud program.--EOIR is urged to set written standards 
and criteria for use in judging potentially fraudulent evidence 
and testimony provided to an immigration court.

                           DETENTION TRUSTEE

      The conference agreement provides $1,438,663,000 for the 
Office of the Federal Detention Trustee (OFDT).
      Inadequacy of budget requests.--The Government 
Accountability Office (GAO) is directed to review OFDT's 
methods for projecting population levels, jail day rates and 
other factors that are translated into the annual budget 
request for detention capacity. GAO should make recommendations 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on steps 
OFDT should take to develop more accurate projections of 
funding requirements no later than August 31, 2010.
      Population estimates.--OFDT is directed to report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on a quarterly 
basis the number of individuals in the detention system, the 
projected number of individuals and the annualized costs that 
are associated with them.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $84,368,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG).
      Grants management.--Within funds provided for audit and 
oversight of grant programs, OIG is urged to include a focus on 
financial management issues at the Office of Justice Programs 
(OJP) and OJP's ability to track the disbursement of its 
appropriations by activity.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $12,859,000 for the 
United States Parole Commission for fiscal year 2010.

                            Legal Activities

            SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement provides a total of $875,097,000 
for General Legal Activities for fiscal year 2010. The funding 
is provided as follows:

Solicitor General.......................................     $10,809,000
Tax Division............................................     105,877,000
Criminal Division.......................................     176,861,000
Civil Division..........................................     287,758,000
Environment and Natural Resources.......................     109,785,000
Office of Legal Counsel.................................       7,665,000
Civil Rights Division...................................     145,449,000
INTERPOL-USNCB..........................................      30,091,000
Office of Dispute Resolution............................         802,000

      The conference agreement provides additional resources, 
as requested, for the Department's litigation divisions, for 
which inadequate funding has been proposed in past years. This 
includes additional resources for the Civil Rights Division to 
restore its base capacity to enforce civil rights laws; expand 
its capacity to prosecute and provide litigation support for 
human trafficking and unsolved civil rights era crimes; carry 
out its responsibilities associated with the civil rights of 
institutionalized persons and the access rights of the 
disabled; and enhance the enforcement of fair housing and fair 
lending laws. The agreement also includes $5,300,000 within the 
total for Human Trafficking and Slavery Prosecution 
investigation and prosecution, as requested.
      Within the total, not less than $1,800,000 is for the 
Criminal Division to maintain positions provided in the 
Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) for attorneys, analysts, and 
support personnel for the investigation and prosecution of 
suspected human rights violators from foreign countries who 
have found safe haven in the United States.
      U.S. National Central Bureau.--A September 2009 report 
from the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General 
identified a number of weaknesses in the U.S. National Central 
Bureau's (USNCB) processes and systems for collecting and 
disseminating international criminal information. The 
Department is directed to address the OIG's recommendations as 
soon as possible and to submit a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, within 120 days of enactment of 
this Act, regarding the status of its efforts.

                 VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION TRUST FUND

      The conference agreement provides $7,833,000 for the 
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund for fiscal year 2010.

               SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION

      The conference agreement provides $163,170,000 in budget 
authority for the Antitrust Division for fiscal year 2010. This 
appropriation is offset by $102,000,000 in pre-merger filing 
fee collections, resulting in a direct appropriation of 
$61,170,000.

             SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS

      The conference agreement provides $1,934,003,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of United States Attorneys (USA) for 
fiscal year 2010. The USAs are directed to focus their efforts 
on those crimes for which the unique resources, expertise, or 
jurisdiction of the Federal government can be most effective, 
and to use the resources provided by the conference agreement 
to address their highest priorities.
      Pro-IP Act.--Within the total amount provided, the 
conference agreement includes an additional $2,000,000 above 
the request for activities authorized under section 402 of the 
Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual 
Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-403).
      Child exploitation investigations and prosecutions.--
Within the total, the conference agreement provides not less 
than $36,980,000 for continued investigations and prosecutions 
of offenses related to the sexual exploitation of children, as 
authorized by the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (Public Law 109-248).
      Southwest border enforcement.--Within the funds provided, 
the agreement includes the requested programmatic increase of 
$8,127,000 and 75 positions to strengthen prosecutions of 
criminal enterprises, including human, drug, and weapon 
smuggling, along the southwest border.
      Combating financial fraud.--Within the funds provided, 
the agreement includes the programmatic request of $7,500,000 
and 43 positions to enhance efforts in the areas of mortgage 
fraud, bankruptcy, affirmative civil enforcement, and white 
collar crime.
      Prosecution of serious crimes in Indian Country.--Within 
the funds provided, an additional $6,000,000 above the request 
is provided for the EOUSA to increase the rate of prosecutions 
of serious crime in Indian Country.
      Terrorist recruitment.--The U.S. Attorney for the 
District of Minnesota is urged to continue efforts to help the 
Somali-American community in Minnesota prevent the recruitment 
of young Somali-American men by terrorist groups to fight in 
the Somali civil war.
      Human trafficking.--The conferees direct the Executive 
Office of the United States Attorneys to designate a point of 
contact in each USA office to serve as the coordinator for all 
activities within that office concerning human trafficking and 
slavery matters covered by the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Act. Designating a point of contact will improve communication 
and coordination within each jurisdiction, including with 
victim services organizations, in order to better serve the 
victims of human trafficking and slavery.

                   UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND

      The conference agreement provides budget authority of 
$219,250,000 for the United States Trustee System Fund in 
fiscal year 2010. The reduction of $5,238,000 from the budget 
request is due to a carryover into fiscal year 2010 of prior 
year funds. The appropriation is offset by $210,000,000 in 
offsetting fee collections and $5,000,000 derived from interest 
on investments in U.S. securities, resulting in a direct 
appropriation of $4,250,000.

      SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMISSION

      The conference agreement provides $2,117,000 for the 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission in fiscal year 2010.

                     FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES

      The conference agreement provides $168,300,000 for Fees 
and Expenses of Witnesses.

           SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE

      The conference agreement provides $11,479,000 for the 
Community Relations Service in fiscal year 2010. As authorized 
by the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act (Public Law 
110-344), the conferees direct the Community Relations Service 
to partner with law enforcement agencies and communities to 
help resolve conflicts resulting from the investigation of 
unsolved civil rights era cases.

                         ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND

      The conference agreement provides $20,990,000 for the 
Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $1,125,763,000 for the 
United States Marshals Service (USMS), Salaries and Expenses.
      Sex offender apprehension.--The conference agreement 
includes an increase of $27,500,000 over the budget request to 
expand Adam Walsh Act enforcement activities in districts 
across the country. This funding will also help establish the 
National Sex Offender Targeting Center, improve the agency's 
information technology backbone and reinforce the agency's 
infrastructure so that Deputy Marshals have timely, accurate 
information to track down and arrest fugitive sex offenders.
      Immigration enforcement.--The conference agreement 
includes significant new resources to address the enormous 
workload generated by increased enforcement activity in other 
agencies and bureaus. The conferees hope that this investment 
will at least partially alleviate the pressure on other 
Marshals programs, such as fugitive apprehension, now that more 
dedicated personnel will be available to handle the 
immigration-related caseload.
      Fugitive Task Forces.--The conferees support the Marshals 
Service's Regional Fugitive Task Forces (RFTFs) and District 
Task Forces programs. The conferees direct the Marshals 
Service, within funds provided, to dedicate at least 
$20,000,000 to the enhancement of existing task forces and the 
establishment of new task force capabilities in areas of the 
United States not currently served by regional or district task 
forces.
      Staff sexual abuse.--The conferees are concerned with the 
findings of the Inspector General that the USMS does not have a 
program addressing staff sexual abuse in cellblock and 
transportation operations. The conferees expect the Marshals to 
implement the recommendations of the Inspector General 
expeditiously.

                              CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $26,625,000 for USMS 
construction. Included in this total is $12,625,000 that has 
been previously provided under the Salaries and Expenses 
heading. These funds should be applied to the highest priority 
renovation projects identified by the Marshals.

                       National Security Division

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $87,938,000 for the 
National Security Division (NSD).
      National Security Reviews.--NSD is directed to give 
immediate notice to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of any deviations from the current plan to 
perform 20 National Security Reviews in fiscal year 2010.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT

      The conference agreement provides $528,569,000 for the 
Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Forces.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $7,658,622,000 for the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Salaries and Expenses.
      Materials submitted in support of the budget.--The FBI is 
directed to submit all future budget requests with a listing of 
enhancement proposals in priority order so that the relative 
importance of each new initiative can be weighed. A 
prioritization of enhancements within each end-state capability 
or grouped into tiers will not be sufficient to meet this 
requirement.
      The request also needs to include more quantifiable 
descriptions of the end-state capabilities. The conferees 
understand that the Bureau is currently working to develop more 
discrete and quantifiable end states. When this exercise is 
complete, the newly refined end state capabilities should be 
included in justification materials, along with a description 
of how each new initiative will advance the Bureau toward the 
achievement of an end state.
      Finally, for the fiscal year 2011 process and all future 
requests, the FBI is directed to submit its classified addendum 
concurrently with its unclassified budget justification.
      Hiring challenges.--In order to improve oversight of the 
FBI's hiring program, the FBI is directed to provide 
immediately to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a hiring plan for direct-funded positions in 
fiscal year 2010. This plan should show on-board start of year 
staffing, anticipated attrition, planned enhancement hiring, 
planned vacancy hiring and expected end of year vacancies. This 
data should be supplemented by quarterly reports showing the 
number of direct-funded hires and separations in that quarter, 
as well as a cumulative running total of each.
      Hollow positions.--The FBI is directed to prioritize the 
filling of its 450 existing hollow positions prior to seeking 
additional new positions in any future budget request. In 
addition, the FBI is directed to notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations prior to taking any action that 
would divert salary funds away from the positions for which 
they were appropriated, either for temporary uses (e.g., 
equipment purchases) or ongoing needs (e.g., pay raise 
absorption).
      White collar crime.--The conference agreement provides 
$75,158,000, including an increase of $25,491,000 and 50 new 
agents, for mortgage fraud and other economic recovery 
investigations.
      Civil rights enforcement.--The conference agreement 
provides $54,315,000, including an increase of $8,000,000 over 
the base, for civil rights enforcement. The conferees expect 
these funds to be used for investigations of human trafficking, 
hate crimes and cases pursued under the Emmett Till Unsolved 
Civil Rights Crimes Act.
      Intellectual property enforcement.--The conference 
agreement includes an increase of $8,000,000 over the base for 
new agents to investigate intellectual property (IP) cases as 
authorized under section 402 of the PRO-IP Act (Public Law 110-
403). These new agents are in addition to the IP-dedicated 
agents funded in Public Law 111-8 and identified in the 
Department's 2009 spend plan. The Department is directed to 
provide to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations an 
expenditure analysis of these congressional augmentations to 
ensure that these agents are solely investigating and 
supporting the criminal prosecution of violations of those 
Federal intellectual property laws cited in the statement 
accompanying Public Law 111-8. The report shall provide an 
accounting of the agents placed in specific field offices with 
Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property units and the types 
of intellectual property investigations pursued by these 
agents. This report shall be submitted no later than 120 days 
after the enactment of this Act.
      Gangs and violent crime.--The conference agreement 
includes an increase of $25,000,000 over the base to expand the 
FBI's ability to confront gangs and violent crime in U.S. 
communities and in Indian Country through the Safe Streets and 
Safe Trails task force programs. The conferees expect this 
increased funding to be used to expand the resources of 
existing task forces, and to support the creation of at least 
three new task forces.
      FBI statistics indicate that as much as 80 percent of 
crime in many communities is committed by criminal gangs and 
nearly 58 percent of State and local law enforcement agencies 
report that criminal gangs are active within their 
jurisdiction. The conferees expect the Bureau to develop an 
aggressive, comprehensive and unyielding anti-gang program 
comparable to the successful effort against organized crime in 
the U.S. forty years ago. Within 120 days of the enactment of 
this Act, the FBI shall submit a comprehensive report to the 
Committees on the overall strategy, funding, personnel, and 
activities of the Bureau's anti-gang program, including the MS-
13 National Gang Task force and the Safe Streets and Safe 
Trails task force programs, and the spending plans for 
additional resources provided in this Act.
      Records management.--The conference agreement includes 
requested funding to continue records indexing and other 
preparations to make FBI's case and administrative files 
universally searchable and accessible, and to ensure that they 
are useful intelligence and investigative tools.
      Overseas Contingency Operations.--The conference 
agreement includes $101,066,000, as requested, for the 
annualization of FBI's terrorism supplemental funds.
      Next Generation Identification (NGI).--The FBI's 
inability to finalize program requirements and a budget and 
schedule baseline for NGI raises the possibility of significant 
budget overages and schedule delays. The FBI is directed to 
notify the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations prior 
to acceptance of any Engineering Change Proposal that will 
change NGI's Incremental Development Plan or the Integrated 
Master Schedule as they existed on April 14, 2009.
      With respect to program scope, the FBI is directed to 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
within 120 days of the enactment of this Act on the standards 
the Bureau will use to assess the maturity of any biometric 
indicator being considered for inclusion in NGI.
      National Security Reviews.--The budget justification for 
the National Security Division (NSD) indicates that NSD 
completed fewer National Security Reviews than planned in 
fiscal year 2008 because the FBI's Office of General Counsel 
(OGC) was busy with other requirements and commitments. This 
seems to imply a resource problem at OGC, despite the FBI 
having received millions of dollars in supplemental funds for 
the completion of these reviews. If additional resources are 
required beyond existing remediation dollars, the FBI is urged 
to identify those needs and request sufficient funds in fiscal 
year 2011.
      Surveillance.--The conference agreement provides 
$22,000,000 in addition to requested funds for new personnel to 
address gaps in the FBI's surveillance program. The conferees 
direct that no less than 75 percent of these additional funds 
shall be spent on Special Surveillance Groups.
      Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative.--Cyber-
based attacks and intrusions upon U.S. computer networks, many 
of which may be conducted by foreign state sponsors, result in 
substantial loss of critical intelligence by U.S. government, 
academia, military, industry, financial and other domains. The 
conferees recognize the FBI's efforts to address these threats 
and have included the full request of $140,311,000 to fund 
those efforts. This total includes an additional 260 positions 
and $61,180,000 to further the FBI's investigatory, 
intelligence gathering and technological capabilities.
      The Bureau shall submit to the Committees within 120 days 
of the enactment of this Act a report on the FBI's portion of 
the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative, including 
program strategy, resources, trends in attacks, sources of 
attacks, attack notification procedures, and plans for outreach 
to both public and private sector institutions to prevent and 
deter future attacks.
      Workforce distribution.--Staffing disparities exist 
between FBI field offices that have comparable threat and 
workload levels and comparable populations in their area of 
responsibility. The conferees encourage the Bureau to consider 
such disparities when allocating new agents to field offices in 
fiscal year 2010.
      National security initiatives.--The conferees support the 
FBI's critical national security efforts to conduct 
investigations to prevent, disrupt, and deter acts of 
terrorism, and to continue strengthening relationships with 
other Federal, State and local partners. In addition to 
providing resources for core FBI national security activities, 
the conference agreement also provides funds to enhance 
national security initiatives, including for domain and 
operations, surveillance, and strengthening the FBI workforce.
      Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division.--
The conference agreement includes $651,000,000 for CJIS, 
including $285,000,000 in appropriated funds and $366,000,000 
in user fees.
      Biometrics.--The conference agreement includes language 
to permit the FBI to transfer up to $30,000,000 in prior year 
fees from the Salaries and Expenses account to the Construction 
account for the Biometrics Technology Center, if determined 
necessary by the FBI Director. In addition, the FBI is directed 
to make available $23,000,000 in prior year fee collections for 
information technology equipment and infrastructure that is 
necessary for the facility.
      Human rights violations.--The FBI is directed to increase 
its efforts to investigate and support the criminal prosecution 
of serious human rights crimes committed by foreign nationals 
now residing in the United States. The conferees direct the use 
of $1,500,000 for this purpose and to continue operations of 
the human rights unit at FBI headquarters.
      Innocent Images.--The conference agreement provides a 
total of $52,723,000 for the Innocent Images National 
Initiative to address the problem of child sexual exploitation 
and child victimization.
      Innocence Lost.--The conference agreement provides 
$5,000,000 over the base to hire additional agents for the 
Innocence Lost Initiative to address child prostitution and 
domestic sex trafficking in the United States.
      Rescission.--Title V of this Act contains a rescission 
from the FBI Salaries and Expenses account. This rescission 
should be taken against unobligated balances available for 
carryover from expired annual accounts.

                              CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $239,915,000 for 
construction. Included in this total is $72,119,000 requested 
in the Salaries and Expenses account for Sensitive 
Compartmented Information Facilities.
      Biometrics Technology Center (BTC).--The conference 
agreement includes $97,600,000, as requested, for the BTC, a 
joint biometrics facility that will house both the FBI 
Biometrics Center for Excellence and the DOD Biometrics Fusion 
Center.
      Terrorist Explosive Devices Analytical Center (TEDAC).--
The conference agreement includes an additional $30,000,000 for 
the continued construction of a new TEDAC facility.
      FBI Academy.--The conference agreement includes 
$5,000,000 to begin an architectural and engineering study to 
determine the full scope of renovations and/or construction 
necessary at the FBI Academy.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $2,019,682,000 for the 
Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).
      Mobile Enforcement Teams.--The conference agreement 
includes $5,000,000 above the request to continue 
reestablishing Mobile Enforcement Teams (MET) in each domestic 
field office. The activities of MET should continue to include 
a focus on methamphetamine enforcement.
      Methamphetamine strategy.--DEA is directed to report to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 120 
days of the enactment of this Act on the methamphetamine 
``smurfing'' enforcement strategy it intends to pursue. The 
report shall describe both the actions DEA can pursue with 
current enforcement authorities, as well as any legislative 
changes that might improve DEA's ability to identify and 
apprehend individuals engaged in smurfing.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $1,114,772,000 for the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), 
Salaries and Expenses.
      Southwest border enforcement.--The conference agreement 
includes an increase of $17,989,000 in support of ATF's Project 
Gunrunner. This brings the total amount available to ATF for 
weapons trafficking along the southwest border to $61,016,000. 
In order to ensure the continued availability of $10,000,000 
previously provided for Gunrunner through the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), ATF is directed to annualize ARRA 
Gunrunner funds in its fiscal year 2011 request.
      eTrace reconfiguration.--ATF may need to expand and 
reconfigure eTrace and related systems in order to efficiently 
find and package responses to trace data requests as permitted 
by the bill language associated with this account. If 
additional resources are necessary for this reconfiguration, 
ATF is encouraged to use the Department's authorities under 
Public Law 102-140 to access up to $8,500,000 of expired prior 
year funds for this purpose.
      Gangs and violent crime.--Within amounts provided, the 
conference agreement includes an increase of $10,000,000 for 
ATF's Violent Crime Impact Team (VCIT) program for violent 
crime and gang enforcement. These resources should be used to 
expand the activities of existing VCITs and to establish new 
VCITs in geographic areas of highest need.
      The conferees expect ATF to coordinate with the FBI and 
other DOJ entities to maximize effectiveness of anti-gang 
efforts, and to report to the Committees within 120 days of the 
enactment of this Act on the spending plans for the additional 
resources provided in this Act for such efforts.
      Conversion of records.--ATF is urged to continue the 
digital conversion and integration of Federal firearms dealer 
out-of-business records at the National Tracing Center.
      National Integrated Ballistic Information Network.--ATF 
is urged to prioritize the upgrading and replacement of aging 
ballistic imaging equipment in its fiscal year 2010 operating 
budget and in future budget requests. ATF should also ensure 
that upgrades and replacements maximize and protect the 
resources already invested by State and local law enforcement.
      ATF Headquarters.--Within the amounts provided, 
$1,500,000 shall be available to complete projects at ATF's 
national headquarters that were not completed during 
construction of that facility.

                              CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $6,000,000 for ATF 
construction. This includes the requested funds for the 
completion of phase two of the National Center for Explosives 
Research and Training.

                         Federal Prison System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $6,086,231,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Prison System for fiscal 
year 2010, an increase of $106,400,000 above the budget 
request.
      Bureau of Prisons appropriations requests.--The 
Department's appropriations requests for the Federal Bureau of 
Prisons (BOP) have been woefully inadequate over the last 
several years to meet BOP's basic operational needs. Rather 
than proposing funding levels based on the marginal costs of 
expected growth in the inmate population, the appropriations 
requests for BOP appear to hew to external, arbitrary 
limitations. As a result, even when program enhancements are 
proposed, such as the hiring of new correctional officers and 
the activation of new prisons, BOP would be unable to implement 
such enhancements were Congress to provide the requested 
funding level. BOP cannot be expected to operate with arbitrary 
limitations on funding increases because BOP has relatively 
little control over its primary cost driver, inmate population 
growth. To address the gap between BOP's operating needs and 
its budget request, the conference agreement provides an 
additional $106,400,000.
      Variation from the funding directives in this statement 
shall be subject to the reprogramming requirements of section 
505 of this Act. As part of the Department's fiscal year 2010 
spending plan, BOP shall propose a distribution of funds by 
decision unit that incorporates such directives. If additional 
salaries and expenses funding is required to meet BOP's 
operating needs during fiscal year 2010, the Department is 
expected to propose supplemental appropriations or transfer 
funds from outside BOP to meet those needs.
      The Department and BOP are expected to review carefully 
the Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommendations 
related to BOP's budget formulation methodology and to 
implement recommendations designed to better ensure that future 
budget requests are coherently tied to BOP's operational needs. 
The conferees expect the budget requests for fiscal year 2011 
and future years to identify clearly the marginal costs of 
projected inmate population increases, in both BOP and private 
facilities, and to include those costs as adjustments to BOP's 
base budget. More generally, the Department and BOP are 
expected to present future budget requests for BOP in a way 
that accurately differentiates all non-discretionary cost 
adjustments to BOP's base budget requirements from program and 
staffing enhancements. BOP's fiscal year 2011 budget request 
should also provide detailed descriptions of the major 
categories of activities comprising each decision unit and the 
proposed funding levels for each such category, including 
comparisons to prior year obligations for each category.
      Correctional worker staffing.--The current correctional 
workforce is spread dangerously thin, compromising BOP's 
ability to operate the Federal Prison System in a safe and 
efficient manner and undermining efforts to facilitate the 
successful reentry of inmates back into their communities. 
While BOP used additional resources provided by Congress above 
the budget request in fiscal year 2009 to hire more than 700 
additional correctional workers, substantial additional 
progress must be made to ensure that BOP facilities can operate 
safely and effectively. Therefore, not less than $98,200,000 of 
the total salaries and expenses appropriation shall be used 
only for additional correctional worker staffing in fiscal year 
2010 and for annualizing the cost of correctional workers hired 
during fiscal year 2009. The conferees expect the fiscal year 
2011 budget submission to propose fully annualizing the cost of 
staff hired in fiscal year 2010 and to propose additional 
funding that would enable BOP to make significant further 
progress in increasing its on-board correctional worker 
staffing rate in fiscal year 2011.
      To ensure that BOP's correctional worker staffing needs 
are clearly defined, the conferees direct BOP to identify, as 
part of the budget requests for fiscal year 2011 and future 
years, the proposed number of authorized positions for each BOP 
facility in each correctional worker staffing category, along 
with the on-board staffing goals for the coming fiscal year for 
each facility in each such category, defined as percentages of 
authorized positions.
      New prison activation.--Of the total amount provided, not 
less than $36,000,000 shall be used for the activation of FCI 
McDowell and not less than $22,000,000 shall be used for the 
activation of FCI Mendota. Although the budget request proposed 
the full activation of these facilities in fiscal year 2010, 
BOP has stated that various delays will prevent their full 
activation as scheduled. The amounts provided by the conference 
agreement for these activations are based on BOP's most current 
estimates of the maximum amount it could obligate in fiscal 
year 2010. The conferees direct BOP to provide to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations, within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act, an updated construction and activation 
schedule for new BOP facilities, and to notify formally the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of any deviations 
from this schedule, including detailed explanations of the 
causes of delays and actions proposed to address them.
      Federal Prison System population.--The conferees urge the 
Department and BOP to consider evidence-based policy changes 
that BOP could make under its current statutory authorities 
that would help it responsibly manage its offender population 
while reducing recidivism, improving public safety, and 
reducing future costs to the American taxpayer. In addition, 
the conferees direct the National Institute of Corrections to 
estimate the effects of potential reforms on the Federal prison 
population, and to provide a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations describing those estimated effects 
by September 30, 2010.
      Inmate reentry and Second Chance Act implementation.--The 
conference agreement includes $13,778,000 for BOP's Inmate 
Skills Development initiative and other Second Chance Act 
activities, as proposed by the Department. Because BOP has 
indicated that approximately $75,000,000 is required to 
implement fully its Second Chance Act responsibilities, the 
conferees expect the Department to propose significant 
additional funding for this purpose in the fiscal year 2011 
budget request, including significant additional funding for 
the enhanced use of Residential Reentry Centers (RRC) as part 
of a comprehensive prisoner reentry strategy. The conferees 
also urge BOP to make appropriate use of home confinement when 
considering how to provide reentering offenders with up to 12 
months in community corrections. In addition, the conferees 
direct BOP to report quarterly on the average length of stay in 
community corrections, differentiated by average lengths of 
stay in RRCs and home confinement.
      Within the amount provided for salaries and expenses, the 
conference agreement provides sufficient resources to allow BOP 
to meet the drug abuse treatment needs of all eligible inmates, 
as required by law. The conferees direct BOP to notify 
immediately the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
if any unforeseen factors are expected to prevent BOP from 
meeting this requirement. The conferees expect BOP to make 
significant progress in filling all authorized staff positions 
for drug abuse treatment programs and education programs. To 
the greatest extent possible, BOP shall prioritize the 
participation of nonviolent offenders in the Residential Drug 
Abuse Treatment Program (RDAP) in a way that maximizes the 
benefit of sentence reduction opportunities for reducing the 
inmate population.
      In addition, as part of RDAP, the conferees encourage BOP 
to conduct a pilot initiative on the use of anti-craving 
medications as a component of drug abuse treatment. Such an 
initiative should continue the use of anti-craving medications 
through an offender's period of confinement in community 
corrections and period of supervised release. The conferees 
expect BOP to collaborate on any such initiative with the 
National Institute of Drug Abuse, which is currently supporting 
a research study on the effectiveness of anti-craving 
medication on probationers and parolees.
      As part of its portion of the Department's fiscal year 
2010 spending plan, BOP shall delineate the funding to be 
provided for each of its programs and activities related to 
inmate reentry and Second Chance Act implementation, including 
inmate drug abuse treatment programs, inmate education and 
vocational training programs, and all other programs and 
activities designed to facilitate offender reentry. As part of 
the fiscal year 2011 budget submission, the conferees direct 
the Department and BOP to include a detailed description of the 
coordinated prisoner reentry strategy required by the Second 
Chance Act, along with the estimated costs of full 
implementation of that strategy in fiscal year 2011.
      In addition, to ensure that BOP is benefiting from 
outside expertise and viewpoints, the conferees direct BOP to 
convene an independent panel to make recommendations for future 
options for the development of prisoner reentry programs, 
including options related to the role of faith-based and 
community programs. The report of this panel shall be submitted 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 120 
days of enactment of this Act.
      The conferees direct GAO to evaluate BOP's strategic 
approach to budgeting for its inmate reentry programs and 
activities, including community corrections and programs and 
activities related to BOP's Second Chance Act responsibilities. 
GAO shall provide recommendations to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations by June 30, 2010, on how BOP 
should adapt its budgeting processes to carry out more 
effectively an inmate reentry strategy and fully implement the 
provisions of the Second Chance Act that apply to BOP.
      Counterterrorism activities.--Within the amount provided, 
not less than $14,200,000 is for the full estimated cost of 
BOP's counterterrorism activities, including the monitoring and 
translation of the communications of incarcerated terrorists 
and the dissemination of information, as appropriate, to law 
enforcement agencies. These activities have been partially 
funded through supplemental appropriations in previous fiscal 
years.
      Sexual misconduct.--Using funds provided in prior fiscal 
years, the National Institute of Corrections has made useful 
progress in helping State and local correctional systems 
throughout the country reduce staff sexual misconduct with 
inmates. By providing training in investigating cases and 
training the ``trainers,'' NIC is helping to ensure that 
employees at every level will be more aware of, and better 
prepared to deal with, these cases.
      At the Federal level, a September 2009 report by the 
Department's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) found that 
BOP has not established appropriate goals and oversight 
mechanisms for its programs to prevent and respond to sexual 
abuse of inmates by staff. In addition, the OIG report found 
that BOP's staff training programs need to be updated, that 
some inmate victims have not been referred for psychological 
and medical assessments, and that officials at some BOP 
facilities have implemented policies to safeguard prisoners, 
such as segregation and transfer, which may serve as a 
disincentive for some prisoners to report abuse. The OIG report 
makes several recommendations designed to address these and 
other issues, upon which the conferees urge BOP to act as soon 
as possible.
      Administrative Maximum United States Penitentiary.--The 
conferees direct BOP to ensure that the Administrative Maximum 
United States Penitentiary, also known as ``Supermax,'' has 
adequate funding to retain staff levels necessary to provide 
strict oversight of prisoner activities and communications; 
ensure the safety of prison staff; and make needed upgrades to 
its security infrastructure.
      Reimbursement for U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement detainees.--The conferees direct the Attorney 
General to work cooperatively with the Secretary of the 
Department of Homeland Security to transfer expeditiously ICE 
detainees who are currently housed in the Federal Prison 
System, or to obtain prompt and fair reimbursement from U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement for the costs of 
incarcerating them.
      National Institute of Corrections.--To address 
deficiencies identified by the U.S. Census Bureau in the 
reporting of inmate address information, the conferees 
encourage the National Institute of Corrections to work with 
State corrections agencies to develop better procedures and 
systems for collecting and maintaining corrections records.
      Stun lethal fences.--BOP correctional officers have 
expressed concerns about the use of ``stun lethal'' fences at 
BOP facilities in lieu of correctional officers in perimeter 
towers. The conferees direct BOP to submit a report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, within 120 days 
of enactment of this Act, on the reliability and effectiveness 
of these fences.
      Incarceration of low security criminal alien offenders.--
The conferees direct BOP to submit a report, within 120 days of 
enactment of this Act, on its long term strategy for minimizing 
the cost of incarcerating low security criminal alien 
offenders, including an assessment of the potential for closed 
military facilities, closed State prisons, or other existing 
facilities to be converted to low security prisons operated by 
BOP.

                        BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

      The conference agreement provides $99,155,000 for fiscal 
year 2010 for the construction, modernization, maintenance, and 
repair of prison and detention facilities housing Federal 
inmates.
      Modernization and repair.--Of the total amount provided 
for Buildings and Facilities, not less than $73,769,000 is for 
modernization and repair (M&R) activities. The conferees direct 
BOP to provide a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, within 30 days of enactment of this Act, 
itemizing all pending M&R projects for Federal prison 
facilities, specifying when each project was first identified 
and estimating the cost associated with each project. The 
conferees also direct BOP to provide an updated M&R backlog 
list as part of its fiscal year 2011 budget request. In 
addition, the conferees expect the Department to propose 
sufficient funding in the fiscal year 2011 budget proposal to 
begin to address seriously BOP's M&R backlog.
      Construction.--The Department is expected to ensure that 
the fiscal year 2011 budget proposal for BOP contains 
sufficient resources for BOP to, at a minimum, stay on track 
with its current plan to construct and activate new prisons.

   LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, 
                              INCORPORATED

      The conference agreement provides a limitation on 
administrative expenses of $2,700,000 for Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated.
      The Department is urged to explore new program models, 
and to seek new funding and authorities, as necessary, to 
create additional inmate work and training programs that 
prepare inmates for successful reentry into the community. The 
Department shall submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, within 120 days of enactment of this Act, a 
plan describing such options for increasing inmate work 
opportunities.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

      In total, the conference agreement provides 
$3,706,959,000 for State and local law enforcement and crime 
prevention grant programs for fiscal year 2010, an increase of 
$479,859,000 above the fiscal year 2009 funding level. The 
conferees direct the Department to work closely with recipients 
of congressionally-designated funding to ensure that funded 
projects are consistent with authorized criminal justice 
purposes and goals, and to provide appropriate management and 
oversight of each grant. No administrative overhead costs shall 
be deducted from funding for congressionally-designated 
projects. In addition, no grant funding shall be used for 
luxury items, real estate, or construction projects.

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND PROSECUTION PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $418,500,000 for Office 
on Violence Against Women (OVW) grants and programs for fiscal 
year 2010, as follows:

        Program                                               Conference
STOP Grants.............................................    $210,000,000
        National Institute of Justice (R&D).............     (3,000,000)
        Transitional Housing Assistance.................    (18,000,000)
Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies.....................      60,000,000
Rural Domestic Violence Assistance Grants...............      41,000,000
Violence on College Campuses............................       9,500,000
Civil Legal Assistance..................................      41,000,000
Sexual Assault Victims Service..........................      15,000,000
Elder Abuse Grant Program...............................       4,250,000
Safe Havens Project.....................................      14,000,000
Education & Training for Disabled Female Victims........       6,750,000
Court Training and Improvement..........................       3,000,000
Services for Children/Youth Exposed to Violence.........       3,000,000
Advocates for Youth/Services for Youth Victims (STARY)..       3,500,000
National Tribal Sex Offender Registry...................       1,000,000
Engaging Men and Youth in Prevention....................       3,000,000
National Resource Center on Workplace Responses.........       1,000,000
Supporting Teens Through Education and Protection.......       2,500,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
            Total.......................................     418,500,000

Note.--The conference agreement does not provide funding through OVW for 
programs requested in the President's budget that were funded through 
this account in fiscal year 2009 but are administered by the Office of 
Justice Programs (OJP). For fiscal year 2010, funding for each of these 
OJP-administered programs is appropriated directly to OJP at the fiscal 
year 2009 level. For programs administered by OVW, the total is an 
increase of $29,500,000 above the fiscal year 2009 funding level.

      Several programs requested in the budget that received 
funding through this appropriation in fiscal year 2009 are 
funded under the conference agreement through the Office of 
Justice Programs (OJP) because they are administered by OJP. 
These include: the CASA Special Advocates program; the Training 
for Judicial Personnel program; the Stalking Database program; 
the Research on Violence Against Women program; and Training 
Programs to Assist Probation and Parole Officers. The 
conference agreement provides funding through OJP for each of 
these programs at the fiscal year 2009 level. For grants and 
programs administered directly by OVW, the conference agreement 
provides $29,500,000 more than the budget request and the 
fiscal year 2009 level.
      Violence Against Women Act programs.--Domestic violence, 
sexual assault, dating violence and stalking are crimes of 
epidemic proportions that impact millions of individuals and 
every community in the United States. For 15 years, Violence 
Against Women Act (VAWA) programs have supported community 
efforts around the Nation to respond effectively to domestic 
violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence. In the 
109th Congress, Congress unanimously passed a VAWA 
reauthorization to continue successful programs and create 
targeted new programs to address gaps in prevention services 
and better meet the needs of youth, native women, communities 
of color, and victims of sexual violence. In light of the 
frequent connection between violence against women and a 
variety of social ills, such as homelessness and substance 
abuse, the VAWA reauthorization also sought to address housing, 
healthcare, criminal justice, employment and other social needs 
of victims. Because violence against women is often associated 
with other types of crime, such as gang violence, child abuse, 
and trafficking, the Department and OVW are encouraged to work 
together to address the intersection of these crimes.
      Addressing violence against Native women.--While it is 
estimated that American Indian women are victimized at more 
than double the rate of any other population of women in the 
United States, not a single comprehensive study of rates of 
violence against this group has been conducted. In addition, 
the lack of a tribal protection order and sex offender registry 
prevents tribes from accessing information that could prevent 
future violence. Through OVW and the Office of Justice 
Programs, the conference agreement includes funding to document 
the extent and nature of violence against Native women and to 
establish a tribal registry to enhance enforcement of tribal 
protection orders and the monitoring of sex offenders.
      Safe start.--Funding requested through OVW for the Safe 
Start program is not provided through OVW because Safe Start is 
administered by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention, within the Office of Justice Programs. The 
conference agreement instead recommends funding for Safe Start 
through the Juvenile Justice appropriation.
      Jessica Gonzales victim assistance program.--Support for 
victim assistants who act as liaisons between local law 
enforcement agencies and victims of domestic and dating 
violence, sexual assault, and stalking remains an eligible 
purpose under the STOP Violence Against Women formula grant 
program.
      Training, technical assistance, research and 
statistics.--As part of the Department's spending plan for 
fiscal year 2010, OVW shall provide details on its planned 
training and technical assistance (T&TA) activities and 
research and statistics activities. The spending plan shall 
differentiate those activities performed via grant, cooperative 
agreement, interagency agreement, under contract, and performed 
directly by OVW. As part of the fiscal year 2011 budget 
submission, the conferees direct OVW to provide similar details 
on its planned T&TA activities and research and statistics 
activities for fiscal year 2011.
      Management and administration.--The conference agreement 
maintains the salaries and expenses account structure 
established in the fiscal year 2009 Act to fund the management 
and administrative costs of OVW and other Justice Department 
grant programs. No administrative overhead costs shall be 
deducted from the programs funded from this account.

                       Office of Justice Programs

      Training, technical assistance, research and 
statistics.--The Office of Justice Programs (OJP), as part of 
the Department's spending plan for fiscal year 2010, shall 
provide details of its planned training and technical 
assistance (T&TA) activities and research and statistics 
activities. The spending plan shall differentiate those 
activities performed via grant, cooperative agreement, 
interagency agreement, under contract, and performed directly 
by OJP. In addition, the conferees direct OJP, as part of the 
Department's fiscal year 2011 budget submission, to provide 
details of its planned T&TA activities and research and 
statistics activities for fiscal year 2011.
      Evidence-based programs.--To the greatest extent 
practicable, OJP shall ensure that competitive grants are used 
for evidence-based programs and activities.
      Services for victims of rape.--An estimated one in six 
women in the United States will experience a sexual assault in 
her lifetime, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation ranks 
rape as the second most violent crime, second only to murder. 
The Department of Justice is encouraged to continue supporting 
programs, including hotline programs, which facilitate the 
delivery of confidential recovery services to rape victims.

                           JUSTICE ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $235,000,000 for 
Justice Assistance programs for fiscal year 2010, as follows:

        Program                                               Conference
National Institute of Justice...........................     $48,000,000
Bureau of Justice Statistics............................      60,000,000
State Automated Victim Notification System..............      12,000,000
Regional Information Sharing System (RISS)..............      45,000,000
Missing and Exploited Children..........................      70,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
      Total.............................................     235,000,000

      Regional information sharing.--Within the amount provided 
for RISS, funds shall be available to support existing local-
to-local law enforcement data and information sharing efforts 
focused on solving routine crimes, especially in rural areas, 
by sharing law enforcement information not categorized as 
criminal intelligence. Funded projects will conform with 
national standards, priorities, and goals articulated by the 
Bureau of Justice Assistance.
      Missing and exploited children.--The conference agreement 
does not prescribe a distribution of funds for missing and 
exploited children programs, except that $30,000,000 shall be 
available for the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force 
program. BJA shall provide a plan for the use of the remainder 
of the funds to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations as part of the Department's fiscal year 2010 
spending plan.
      National Institute of Justice.--Within the amount 
provided for the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), 
$5,000,000 is for forensics and DNA, including $1,000,000 to 
support the continued development of standards and standard 
reference materials at the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) Office of Law Enforcement Standards to 
maintain quality and proficiency within Federal, State, and 
local crime laboratory facilities. NIJ shall provide to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a plan for the 
use of the remainder of NIJ's appropriation as part of the 
Department's fiscal year 2010 spending plan.
      Hate crimes.--The conferees direct BJA to assess the 
feasibility and associated costs of establishing a national 
helpline for victims of hate crimes. In addition, the conferees 
direct NIJ to evaluate trends in hate crimes against new 
immigrants, individuals who are perceived to be immigrants, and 
Hispanic-Americans, and to assess the underlying causes behind 
any increase in hate crimes against such groups.
      Collaboration among State corrections, alcohol and drug 
abuse, and mental health program directors.--The conferees 
encourage BJA to continue working with the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration to foster collaboration 
among the Association of State Corrections Administrators, the 
National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors, 
and the National Association of State Mental Health Program 
Directors.
      National missing and unidentified persons system.--The 
conferees encourage NIJ to continue to support its on-line 
database containing information about unidentified decedents 
and missing persons. In addition, as allowable by law and as 
appropriate, NIJ is encouraged to explore the sharing of data 
between NIJ's database and other relevant databases, including 
that of the FBI's National Crime Information Center (NCIC), to 
better facilitate the identification of unidentified decedents 
and missing persons.

               STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $1,534,768,000 for 
State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance programs for fiscal 
year 2010. This account includes funding for several programs 
administered by the Office of Justice Programs that were funded 
for fiscal year 2009 through the Office on Violence Against 
Women or the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services. 
The total amount is distributed as follows:

        Program                                               Conference
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants................    $519,000,000
    National Institute of Justice.......................     (5,000,000)
    State and Local Intelligence Training...............     (3,000,000)
Byrne Discretionary Grants..............................     185,268,000
Byrne Competitive Grants................................      40,000,000
State Criminal Justice Reform and Recidivism Reduction..      10,000,000
John R. Justice Grant Program...........................      10,000,000
Tribal Assistance.......................................      50,000,000
    Detention facilities................................    (10,000,000)
    Courts..............................................    (25,000,000)
    Alcohol and substance abuse grants..................    (12,000,000)
    Legal Assistance....................................     (3,000,000)
State Criminal Alien Assistance Program.................     330,000,000
Southwest Border Prosecutions...........................      31,000,000
Northern Border Prosecutions............................       3,000,000
Victims of Trafficking Grants...........................      12,500,000
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment...................      30,000,000
Mentally Ill Offender Act...............................      12,000,000
Drug Courts.............................................      45,000,000
Prescription Drug Monitoring............................       7,000,000
Prison Rape Prevention and Prosecution..................      15,000,000
Justice for All--Capital Litigation/Wrongful Conviction 
    Review..............................................       5,500,000
Missing Alzheimer's Patient Grants......................       2,000,000
Economic, High-tech and Cybercrime Prevention...........      20,000,000
CASA-Special Advocates..................................      15,000,000
Training for Judicial Personnel.........................       2,500,000
Stalking Database.......................................       3,000,000
Research on Violence Against Indian Women...............       1,000,000
Training Program to Assist Probation and Parole Officers       3,500,000
Closed Circuit Television Grants........................       1,000,000
Second Chance Act.......................................     100,000,000
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction....................      15,000,000
National Instant Criminal Background Check System grants      20,000,000
Criminal Records Upgrade................................      11,500,000
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Grants..................      35,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
      Total.............................................   1,534,768,000

      Edward Byrne memorial justice assistance grant program.--
The conference agreement provides $519,000,000 for activities 
under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) 
program. When excluding one-time fiscal year 2009 costs for 
reimbursement to State and local governments for security and 
other expenses related to the presidential transition and 
inauguration, the funding level for this account is equal to 
the fiscal year 2009 level and the request. Within the amount 
provided, $3,000,000 is for intelligence training for State and 
local law enforcement entities and $5,000,000 is for the 
National Institute of Justice to help local units of government 
identify, select, develop, modernize, and purchase new 
technologies for use by law enforcement. Except for the 
activities noted above, the conference agreement does not 
provide funding under this heading for activities proposed 
under this heading in the House or Senate Committee reports.
      Crime reporting transition rule.--The September 30, 2008, 
expiration of the crime reporting ``transition rule'' 
established by 42 U.S.C. 3755(d)(2)(B) resulted in 
approximately 1,000 communities falling out of eligibility for 
Byrne-JAG direct local awards. A number of these communities 
have high crime rates and many were reportedly unaware that, 
effective October 1, 2008, compliance with State crime 
reporting requirements no longer ensured compliance with Byrne-
JAG reporting requirements. The conferees encourage these 
communities to come into compliance with current Byrne-JAG 
reporting requirements and direct the Department of Justice to 
collect, process, and validate reporting information as 
expeditiously as possible in order to ensure the future 
eligibility of these communities.
      Byrne discretionary grants.--The conference agreement 
provides $185,268,000 for Byrne discretionary grants to prevent 
crime, improve the criminal justice system, provide victims' 
services, and other related activities. The following table 
details funding for congressionally designated projects, which 
the bill incorporates by reference:


      Byrne competitive grants.--The conference agreement 
includes $40,000,000 for competitive, peer-reviewed grants to 
programs of national significance to prevent crime, improve the 
administration of justice or assist victims of crime. The 
conferees do not concur with recommendations in the Senate 
Committee report for allocating these funds for particular 
programs, projects or activities. OJP shall submit a plan, 
within 120 days of enactment of this Act, detailing the 
criteria and methodology that will be used to award grants. The 
conferees expect national programs that have previously 
received funding under the Byrne discretionary program or the 
Juvenile Justice Part E program, and programs for which 
specific funding is designated in this Act, to be eligible to 
compete for funding under this competitive grant program.
      State criminal justice reform and recidivism reduction.--
The conference agreement provides $10,000,000 for technical 
assistance, incentive grants, and other activities in support 
of comprehensive, evidence-based criminal justice reform and 
recidivism reduction efforts by States.
      John R. Justice grants.--The conference agreement 
provides $10,000,000 pursuant to section 952 of Public Law 110-
315, which authorizes student loan repayment assistance for 
State and local prosecutors and public defenders, as well as 
Federal public defenders, to complement existing student loan 
repayment options for Federal prosecutors. The John R. Justice 
Prosecutors and Defenders Incentive program addresses the 
serious problems prosecutor and public defender offices across 
the country face in recruiting and retaining qualified 
attorneys.
      Tribal assistance.--The conferees encourage OJP to assist 
tribes in building their capacity to plan and develop effective 
criminal justice programs and initiatives, and to prioritize 
assistance to tribes with the greatest needs. The conferees 
also encourage OJP to expand its efforts to provide voluntary 
training for tribal court officials and judges to promote 
improvements in tribal judicial systems. In addition, the 
conferees direct OJP to coordinate with the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs in the Department of the Interior in developing a 
priority list for detention facility construction, targeting 
tribal areas with the greatest need, and to incorporate that 
priority system into the ranking criteria for detention 
facility grants.
      Victims of trafficking.--The conference agreement 
includes $12,500,000 for services for U.S. citizens, permanent 
residents, and foreign nationals who are victims of human 
trafficking, and for task force activities. OJP shall provide a 
plan for the use of these funds to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations as part of the Department's fiscal 
year 2010 spending plan.
      Drug courts.--To facilitate the use of State clinical 
treatment standards, discourage system fragmentation, promote 
sustainability, and encourage the use of common client level 
performance and outcomes data, the conferees strongly encourage 
collaboration between drug courts and State agencies that 
oversee substance abuse prevention and treatment services.
      Justice for all, capital litigation review/wrongful 
conviction review.--Of the amount provided, $2,500,000 is made 
available for capital litigation grants to improve the quality 
of representation and the reliability of verdicts in local and 
State capital cases through training for prosecutors, defense 
counsel and trial judges. Also within the amount provided, 
$3,000,000 is for competitive grants to public and non-profit 
entities that work to exonerate individuals who have been 
wrongfully convicted.
      Economic, high-tech and cybercrime prevention.--As part 
of the Department's fiscal year 2010 spending plan, OJP is 
directed to provide to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a plan for the use of the funds provided for 
economic, high tech, and cybercrime prevention grants.
      Second Chance Act.--The conference agreement provides 
$100,000,000 for activities authorized under the Second Chance 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199) to reduce criminal recidivism, 
which is $75,000,000 above the fiscal year 2009 enacted level 
and equal to the request. Of the total, $37,000,000 is for 
Adult and Juvenile Offender Reentry Demonstration Grants; 
$10,000,000 is for State, tribal and local reentry courts; 
$7,500,000 is for family-based substance abuse treatment, 
including family-based programs for the incarcerated parents of 
minor children; $2,500,000 is to evaluate and improve education 
at prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities; $5,000,000 is for 
technology careers training demonstration grants; $13,000,000 
is for offender reentry substance abuse and criminal justice 
collaboration; $15,000,000 is for grants for mentoring and 
transitional services, as authorized by Section 211 of Public 
Law 110-199; and $10,000,000 is for prisoner reentry research. 
The conference agreement authorizes the Attorney General to 
waive the matching requirements for Adult and Juvenile Reentry 
Demonstration Projects grants awarded in fiscal year 2010 based 
on determinations of fiscal hardship.
      National technical assistance and training.--The 
conferees encourage the Department to support efforts to assist 
States in the development and use of criminal justice 
information systems that accelerate the automation of 
identification processes for fingerprints and other criminal 
justice data, and which improve the compatibility of State and 
local law enforcement systems with the FBI's Integrated 
Automated Fingerprint Identification System.
      Solving cold cases with DNA.--The conferees recognize the 
need of State and local governments for resources to identify, 
review, investigate and prosecute violent crime cold cases that 
may be solved using DNA analysis and to locate and analyze 
biological evidence associated with these cases. Advances in 
DNA technology and the success of DNA database systems have 
substantially increased the successful analysis of aged, 
degraded, limited or otherwise compromised biological evidence. 
As a result, crime scene samples once thought to be unsuitable 
for testing may now yield DNA profiles. Additionally, samples 
that previously generated inconclusive DNA results may now be 
successfully analyzed using newer methods. The conferees expect 
both the Office of Justice Programs and the National Institute 
of Justice to continue supporting State and local law 
enforcement efforts to investigate and prosecute violent crime 
cold cases, including those from the civil rights era to 
support the goals of the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights 
Crime Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-344).
      National Motor Vehicle Title Information System 
(NMVTIS).--The conferees affirm House report language on the 
National Motor Vehicle Title Information System, and understand 
that the Department recently provided fiscal year 2009 funds 
for NMVTIS to make system enhancements and assist participation 
by States. The conferees encourage OJP to continue to work with 
the system operator in fiscal year 2010.
      Legal advocacy for crime victims.--The conferees note 
that a multiyear, national demonstration project, funded 
through the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), to improve the 
capacity of attorneys to represent victims in the enforcement 
of their rights ended in 2009, and that a preliminary 
evaluation concluded that the project's clinics ``are on the 
road to fulfilling the intentions of their architects and 
funders.'' The conferees strongly encourage OVC to continue to 
support efforts to provide legal counsel and support services 
for crime victims, and expand awareness and recognition of 
victims' rights.

                       WEED AND SEED PROGRAM FUND

      The conference agreement provides $20,000,000 for the 
Weed and Seed Program for fiscal year 2010.

                       JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $423,595,000 for 
Juvenile Justice Programs for fiscal year 2010, as follows:

        Program                                               Conference
Part B--State Formula...................................     $75,000,000
Part E--Challenge Grants--Demonstration Projects........      91,095,000
Youth Mentoring Grants..................................     100,000,000
Title V--Incentive Grants...............................      65,000,000
    Tribal Youth........................................    (25,000,000)
    Gang Prevention.....................................    (10,000,000)
    Alcohol Prevention..................................    (25,000,000)
    Incentive Grants....................................     (5,000,000)
Investigation and Prosecution of Child Abuse Program....      22,500,000
Juvenile Accountability Block Grants....................      55,000,000
Community-Based Violence Prevention Initiative..........      10,000,000
Safe Start..............................................       5,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
        Total...........................................     423,595,000

      Part E--discretionary grants.--The conference agreement 
provides $91,095,000 for the following congressionally-
designated activities related to juvenile justice and at-risk 
youth, which the bill incorporates by reference:


      Youth mentoring grants.--To support the critical work of 
national, regional and local organizations in nurturing and 
mentoring at-risk children and youth, the conference agreement 
provides $100,000,000 for competitive, peer-reviewed youth 
mentoring grants. Within 60 days of enactment of this Act, OJP 
is directed to provide a report and spending plan to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations detailing the criteria 
and methodology that will be used to award these grants. The 
conferees expect that OJJDP will take all steps necessary to 
ensure fairness and objectivity in the award of these and 
future competitive grants. It is expected that national 
programs that have received funding under the Byrne 
discretionary grants program or the Juvenile Justice Part E 
program will be eligible for funding under this competitive 
grant program, including programs for which specific amounts 
are designated in this Act.
      Safe Start.--The conference agreement provides $5,000,000 
for the Safe Start Initiative, which helps prevent and reduce 
the impact of children's exposure to violence in both the home 
and the community, as a distinct Juvenile Justice 
appropriation. The Senate Committee report had proposed funding 
for this program under the Part B State formula appropriation, 
while the Department had proposed funding for this program 
through the Office on Violence Against Women.
      Victims of Child Abuse Act.--Within the $22,500,000 
provided for Victims of Child Abuse Act programs, the 
conference agreement designates $5,000,000 for regional 
children's advocacy centers programs.
      Mental health services for youth in foster care.--When 
developing and implementing programs related to children in 
foster care or who have been adopted from foster care, OJJDP is 
encouraged to work with the Administration for Children and 
Families at the Department of Health and Human Services and 
non-profit organizations with expertise on the mental health 
needs of such children.
      Child exploitation prevention and interdiction.--The 
Attorney General is urged to designate a senior departmental 
official to coordinate the development of a national strategy 
for child exploitation prevention and interdiction, as directed 
by the Protect Our Children Act (Public Law 110-401).

                     PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS

      The conference agreement provides $70,100,000 for Public 
Safety Officer Benefits programs for fiscal year 2010. Within 
funds provided, $61,000,000 is for death benefits for 
survivors, an amount estimated by the Congressional Budget 
Office that is considered mandatory for scorekeeping purposes. 
In addition, $9,100,000 is provided, as requested, for 
disability benefits for public safety officers who are 
permanently and totally disabled as a result of a catastrophic 
injury, and for education benefits for the spouses and children 
of officers who are killed in the line of duty or who are 
permanently and totally disabled as a result of a catastrophic 
injury sustained in the line of duty.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $791,608,000 for 
Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) programs for fiscal 
year 2010, as follows:

        Program                                               Conference
COPS Hiring Program.....................................    $298,000,000
COPS Technology and Interoperability....................     170,223,000
        NIST/OLES.......................................     (1,500,000)
Meth Hot Spots..........................................      40,385,000
        Transfer to DEA.................................    (10,000,000)
        Tribal meth enforcement grants..................     (5,000,000)
Tribal Law Enforcement..................................      40,000,000
Bulletproof Vests.......................................      30,000,000
        NIST/OLES.......................................     (1,500,000)
DNA Backlog Reduction...................................     161,000,000
        Debbie Smith DNA Backlog grants.................   (151,000,000)
        Post Conviction DNA Testing grants..............     (5,000,000)
        Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners..................     (5,000,000)
Child Sexual Predator Elimination/Sex Offender 
    Management..........................................      24,000,000
        Sex Offender Management.........................    (11,000,000)
        National Sex Offender Public Website............     (1,000,000)
Secure Our Schools Act..................................      16,000,000
Community Policing Development..........................      12,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
            Total.......................................     791,608,000

      Law enforcement technologies and interoperable 
communications.--The conference agreement provides $170,223,000 
for grants for State, local, and tribal law enforcement to 
develop and acquire effective technologies and interoperable 
communications that assist in the prevention of and response to 
crime. COPS is directed to ensure that all equipment funded 
under this program meets applicable requirements of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Office of 
Law Enforcement Standards (OLES).
      Within the funds provided, $1,500,000 shall be 
transferred to NIST to continue the efforts of OLES in 
developing a comprehensive suite of minimum standards for law 
enforcement communications, including the development of 
conformance and interoperability test standards for the Project 
25 Inter-RF-Subsystem Interface (ISSI), Console Interface, and 
Fixed Station Interface for land mobile radio systems. These 
funds should also be used to begin the development of standards 
for emerging technologies such as VoIP applications for public 
safety operations. In addition, these funds should be used to 
support the development and implementation of a compliance 
assessment program to ensure that communications equipment 
purchased with Federal funds is compliant with existing, 
applicable standards.
      The accompanying table details funding for 
congressionally-designated activities, which the bill 
incorporates by reference:


      Methamphetamine enforcement and clean-up.--The conference 
agreement provides $40,385,000 for activities to address public 
safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, and use in 
``hot spots.'' Within the funds provided, $10,000,000 is for 
transfer to the Drug Enforcement Administration to assist 
State, local and tribal law enforcement agencies with the 
proper removal and disposal of hazardous materials at 
clandestine methamphetamine labs, including funds for training, 
technical assistance, a container program, and purchase of 
equipment. Also within the total is $5,000,000 for tribal 
methamphetamine enforcement activities. COPS shall consult with 
tribal governments on the distribution of these funds to ensure 
that they are targeted to areas with the greatest need.
      The accompanying table details funding for 
congressionally-designated activities related to 
methamphetamine enforcement, which the bill incorporates by 
reference:


      DNA analysis grants.--The conference agreement provides 
$161,000,000 for grants to strengthen State and local 
government DNA collection and analysis systems, which can be 
vital to successfully prosecuting the guilty and protecting the 
innocent from wrongful conviction. Within the funds provided, 
$151,000,000 is for Debbie Smith DNA backlog reduction grants; 
$5,000,000 is for post-conviction DNA testing grants; and 
$5,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner programs.
      Bulletproof vests.--Within the amount provided for 
bulletproof vests, $1,500,000 is for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards 
to continue supporting the ballistic and stab-resistant 
material compliance testing programs.
      Child sexual predator elimination/sex offender 
management.--Of the amount provided for assistance to State, 
tribal, and local law enforcement to locate, arrest, and 
prosecute child sexual predators and exploiters, and to enforce 
sex offender registration laws, $1,000,000 is for the National 
Sex Offender Public Website and $11,000,000 is for the Office 
of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, 
Registering, and Tracking for sex offender management 
assistance activities. The conferees expect the Department to 
target assistance to tribal and other law enforcement entities 
with the greatest needs.
      Child sexual predator elimination grants help State and 
local law enforcement entities target sexual predators who prey 
upon children, including convicted sex-offenders who fail to 
register. Grants to support these efforts should be awarded in 
a manner that is geographically balanced, facilitates testing 
the model in various settings, and includes major urban police 
departments, State and tribal law enforcement agencies, smaller 
jurisdictions, and regional groupings of agencies. COPS is 
encouraged to continue coordinating with the National Center 
for Missing and Exploited Children to assist grant recipients 
in detecting, apprehending, and prosecuting sex offenders who 
victimize children.
      The conferees support the establishment of coordinated 
sexual predator elimination efforts in communities across the 
country, and recommend the appointment of an Assistant U.S. 
Attorney and a deputy U.S. Marshal in each judicial district to 
help coordinate the development of a comprehensive, district-
wide child sexual predator investigation and prosecution 
strategy, in consultation with social services providers and 
partners from Federal, State and local law enforcement 
agencies.
      Community policing development.--The conference agreement 
provides $12,000,000 for community policing development 
activities, including training and technical assistance and the 
Police Integrity Initiative.
      Training, technical assistance, research and 
statistics.--As part of the Department's spending plan for 
fiscal year 2010, COPS is directed to provide details on its 
planned training and technical assistance (T&TA) activities and 
research and statistics activities. The spending plan shall 
differentiate those activities performed via grant, cooperative 
agreement, interagency agreement, under contract, and performed 
directly by COPS. As part of the fiscal year 2011 budget 
submission, COPS is directed to provide similar details on its 
planned T&TA activities and research and statistics activities 
for fiscal year 2011.

                         Salaries and Expenses

      To achieve greater transparency, efficiency, and 
accountability in the management, administration and oversight 
of grant programs administered by the Department of Justice, 
Congress established a new salaries and expenses account for 
fiscal year 2009 within State and Local Law Enforcement 
Activities to fund the management and administration costs of 
the Department's grant programs. A total of $213,388,000 is 
provided for salaries and expenses for Department of Justice 
grant programs for fiscal year 2010, including $139,218,000 for 
the Office of Justice Programs (OJP); $37,462,000 for the 
Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS); and 
$15,708,000 for the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW).
      The conferees expect all activities related to the 
management and administration of grant programs, grants, and 
cooperative agreements--including activities related to peer 
review--to be supported with salaries and expenses funding. 
Training and technical assistance (T&TA) activities and 
research and statistics activities performed by OJP, OVW, and 
COPS, or through interagency agreements or under contract for 
OJP, OVW, and COPS, may be supported with program funds, 
subject to the submission of details related to these costs in 
the Department's fiscal year 2010 spending plan.
      Within the funds provided, $21,000,000 shall be made 
available to the Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management 
(OAAM). The conferees expect OAAM to continue to develop its 
capacity to evaluate, in coordination with the National 
Institute of Justice, the effectiveness of programs and 
projects funded by OJP, OVW, and COPS, using rigorous research 
and evaluation methods that generate valid evidence on the 
effectiveness of crime prevention strategies.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

      The conference agreement includes the following general 
provisions for the Department of Justice in this Act:
      Section 201 makes available additional reception and 
representation funding for the Attorney General from the 
amounts provided in this title.
      Section 202 prohibits the use of funds to pay for an 
abortion, except in the case of rape or to preserve the life of 
the mother.
      Section 203 prohibits the use of funds to require any 
person to perform or facilitate the performance of an abortion.
      Section 204 establishes the obligation of the Director of 
the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort services to inmates 
receiving an abortion outside of a Federal facility, except 
where this obligation conflicts with the preceding section.
      Section 205 establishes requirements and procedures for 
transfer proposals.
      Section 206 authorizes the Attorney General to extend an 
ongoing personnel management demonstration project.
      Section 207 extends specified authorities to the Bureau 
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives for undercover 
operations.
      Section 208 prohibits the use of funds for transporting 
prisoners classified as maximum or high security, other than to 
a facility certified by the Bureau of Prisons as appropriately 
secure.
      Section 209 prohibits the use of funds for the purchase 
or rental by Federal prisons of audiovisual equipment, services 
and materials used primarily for recreational purposes, except 
for those items and services needed for inmate training, 
religious, or educational purposes.
      Section 210 requires review by the Deputy Attorney 
General and the Department Investment Review Board prior to the 
obligation or expenditure of funds for major information 
technology projects.
      Section 211 requires the Department to follow 
reprogramming procedures prior to any deviation from the 
program amounts specified in this title or the reuse of de-
obligated funds provided in previous years.
      Section 212 prohibits the use of funds for A-76 
competitions for work performed by employees of the Bureau of 
Prisons or Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
      Section 213 prohibits the use of funds to pay the salary, 
benefits or expenses of a U.S. Attorney performing dual duties 
that exempt that U.S. Attorney from established residency 
requirements.
      Section 214 prohibits the use of funds for future phases 
of the Sentinel program until the AG certifies that work on 
existing phases has been substantially completed under a 
validated performance baseline.
      Section 215 permits the use of up to one percent of 
formula grant funds made available to the Office of Justice 
Programs for research or statistical purposes, and permits the 
use of up to three percent of funds made available to that 
office for training and technical assistance.
      Section 216 gives the Attorney General authority to waive 
matching requirements for Second Chance Act adult and juvenile 
reentry demonstration projects based on a demonstration of 
fiscal hardship.
      Section 217 makes permanent retention and relocation 
bonus authorities previously provided to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.
      Section 218 requires the Attorney General to submit 
quarterly reports to the Inspector General regarding the costs 
and contracting procedures related to conferences for which the 
cost to the Federal government is more than $20,000.
      Section 219 extends foreign language proficiency pay 
authorities to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
      Section 220 provides the Attorney General authority to 
waive certain reporting requirements for localities applying 
for Byrne Justice Assistance grants in fiscal year 2010 upon 
demonstrating that they had met previous reporting requirements 
and agree to begin to report timely data on part I violent 
crimes of the Uniform Crime Reports to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation by the end of fiscal year 2010.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

      The conference agreement provides $7,000,000 for the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), of which not to 
exceed $2,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses and rental of conference rooms. The conferees agree 
with the direction of the House that OSTP, working with NOAA, 
NASA, NSF, USGS, the Department of Energy, and other federal 
agencies shall develop a plan for achieving and sustaining 
Earth observations.
      OSTP exists to bring to the President timely 
recommendations for decisions with substantial scientific and 
technical content. OSTP must take leadership, particularly when 
issues involve multiple agencies as they do for climate 
observations, climate change adaptations, and civil and 
military environmental observation systems. Specifically, 
decisions are long past due for the restructuring of NPOESS 
management and the provision of appropriately increased funding 
to complete this system deployment, which teeters once again on 
the brink of crisis. In addition, the Administration is 
expected to put forward a plan to create a National Climate 
Service. The Nation needs a capability to gather, synthesize 
and distribute critical information to regions, States, and 
local governments as they plan for and adapt to climate change. 
Both cases require leadership and decision-making, assignment 
of responsibility for implementation, and oversight of all 
relevant agencies in achieving the integrated mission.
      GLOBE.--The conferees are concerned that the interagency 
GLOBE program, a hands-on primary and secondary school-based 
environmental science and education program, does not receive 
sufficient financial or management support. Accordingly, the 
conferees provide $3,000,000 within NASA and $3,000,000 within 
NOAA for the GLOBE program. The conferees direct the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy to conduct a thorough review of 
the program and to report within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act on recommendations to improve the program's viability. The 
report shall include an examination of the merits of 
transitioning responsibility for the program from NASA to NOAA. 
The conferees expect that any recommendations will be 
incorporated into the fiscal year 2011 budget request.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                             AGENCY SUMMARY

      The conferees remain concerned about NASA's management of 
its budget, as well as its financial recordkeeping and 
reporting. Reports and findings of the General Accounting 
Office and the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
continue to reveal a pattern of lax fiscal management and 
oversight, ranging from the administration of enhanced use 
lease receipts, insufficient evidentiary support for amounts in 
NASA's budget execution data, improper execution of its 
authority in the construction program, and increasing numbers 
of contract awards being protested. Accordingly, the conferees 
have taken several steps to assist NASA in improving its fiscal 
management. The conference agreement:
             consolidates all programmatic and 
        institutional construction and environmental compliance 
        and remediation activities into a new account, for 
        which the period of availability is five years;
             subjects annual expenditures planned from 
        the collection of enhanced use lease receipts to an 
        annual appropriations limitation first enacted in 
        fiscal year 2009;
             fully funds center administrative 
        activities in the consolidated Cross Agency Support 
        account, realigning the remaining FTE currently charged 
        to programmatic accounts;
             directs NASA to include in its annual 
        budget justifications the reserve amount assumed by the 
        agency to be necessary for the program and the amount 
        actually proposed for each directorate, theme, program, 
        project and activity, or if the proposed funding level 
        is based on confidence level budgeting, the confidence 
        level assumed in the proposed funding level;
             directs NASA to cooperate fully and to 
        provide timely program analysis and evaluation data to 
        the GAO to permit the GAO to meet the Congressional 
        mandate on major systems reporting;
             directs NASA to include in its monthly 
        financial reports beginning February 1, 2010, and the 
        15th day of each month thereafter, data on budget 
        authority, outlays, unobligated balances, and 
        recoveries presented by appropriation, theme, program 
        or project for each directorate, theme, program, 
        project and activity, as delineated in the House 
        report;
             directs NASA to include in its fiscal year 
        2011 budget request and each budget request thereafter 
        an accounting of civil service expense requirements, 
        including FTE estimates, requested for each 
        directorate, theme, program, project and activity; and
             directs NASA to report within 60 days of 
        enactment of this Act on actions the agency will take 
        to improve financial management and to ensure integrity 
        of the procurement process in an effort to reduce 
        increasing numbers of contract award protests.
      While the conference report does not adopt the position 
proposed by the House to limit appropriations available to NASA 
for one year while providing an allowance of ten percent for 
two years to reflect the research and development nature of the 
work performed, the conferees will continue to monitor NASA's 
efforts to improve its obligation rate with commensurate 
improvements in accrual of costs and outlays to determine if 
the House's proposal warrants further consideration.
      Summary funding provided for NASA is delineated more 
fully in the table below and in the account summaries.


                                SCIENCE

      The conference agreement provides $4,469,000,000 for 
science. Funds provided herein are available for two years to 
conduct and support science research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs; travel expenses; purchase and hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft. Funds for construction of facilities, including 
repair, renovation of existing facilities, construction of new 
facilities, facility planning and design, and for environmental 
compliance and restoration are provided in a separate, new 
account, as proposed by the House.
      Earth science, other missions and data analysis.--The 
conference agreement provides $201,300,000 for Earth science, 
other missions and data analysis. An increase of $15,000,000 is 
provided above the request to advance further the studies of 
the next two decadal survey missions, the Climate Absolute 
Radiance and Refractivity Observatory (CLARREO) and the 
Deformation, Ecosystem Structure, and Dynamics of the Ice 
(DESDnyI).
      The conferees are concerned about the limited progress 
made to date in advancing the Earth science missions identified 
in the recent decadal survey. In an effort to address the need 
for Earth science data, the conferees encourage NASA to 
consider commercial solutions for providing such data and 
suggest that NASA contract with the National Academies' Space 
Studies Board to conduct a study of the feasibility of 
commercially-provided Earth science data.
      Climate variables and climate science.--Long-term 
measurement of selected climate variables is of critical 
importance for climate science. NASA should provide leadership 
in demonstrating satellite-based global change measurements 
that can then be implemented on an operational basis by NOAA 
and USGS. Given the likely demise in coming years of a number 
of Earth observing satellites and the NASA cancellation of the 
second and third copies of the EOS satellites and instruments, 
NASA, working with NOAA, USGS, and the other agencies of the US 
Global Change Research Program, is directed to conduct a 
systematic review of the recommended Decadal Survey 
implementation architecture, with the focus being to first 
measure and understand specifically those climate forcings that 
have the greatest leverage for improving the Nation's climate 
predictive capabilities significantly over the next 10-12 
years. The resulting architecture should include emphasis on 
NASA's responsibility to develop measurements using new 
technologies to demonstrate an innovative, affordable climate 
observing system and improvements to the predictive models 
resulting from the ensemble of measurements obtained. The 
resulting architecture must also take into account the time 
required for NOAA and USGS to obtain appropriations to assume 
operational responsibility for the measurement once their 
utility has been demonstrated including consideration of NASA 
including two copies of each instrument with operational 
potential. A report outlining this climate-centric architecture 
shall be delivered to the Committees no later than May 3, 2010.
      Scatterometer.--NASA and NOAA are directed to continue 
joint studies leading to a NOAA request in the fiscal year 2011 
budget to build and fly an operational scatterometer to provide 
sea surface vector wind measurements, as directed by the House.
      Earth system science pathfinder, other mission and data 
analysis.--Within the funds provided for other mission and data 
analysis, the conferees have provided $25,000,000 for initial 
costs associated with an orbiting carbon observing (OCO) 
replacement. In addition, NASA is directed to supplement these 
funds with not less than $25,000,000 from available Science 
mission directorate prior year balances to achieve a total 
program level of not less than $50,000,000 in fiscal year 2010.
      Also included within the funds provided for other mission 
and data analysis, the conference agreement provides $6,000,000 
for pre-phase A and pilot initiatives for the development of a 
carbon monitoring system. Any pilot developed shall replicate 
State and national carbon and biomass inventory processes that 
provide statistical precision and accuracy with geospatially 
explicit associated attribute data for aggregation at the 
project, county, State and Federal level using a common dataset 
with complete market transparency, including extraction 
algorhythms and correlation modeling.
      Near Earth object observations.--The recommendation 
includes $5,800,000 for near Earth object observations, an 
increase of $2,000,000 to support scientific research at the 
Arecibo Observatory in the fields of climate change and space 
weather.
      GLOBE.--The recommendation includes $3,000,000 for the 
GLOBE program. The conferees recognize the significant 
investment NASA has made in GLOBE and direct NASA to support 
the OSTP review of the program and to work cooperatively with 
NOAA and NSF on this interagency program.
      Planetary science, international lunar network.--The 
conference agreement provides $15,000,000 for the international 
lunar network.
      Astrophysics, servicing opportunities for science 
missions.--Funding for this activity has been provided within 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Space Operations''.
      Astrophysics, exoplanet exploration, other missions and 
data analysis.--The conference agreement includes the funds 
requested to enable SIM-lite to continue mission concept, 
technology and risk reduction efforts.
      James Webb space telescope.--The conferees provide the 
full budget request of $441,400,000 for the James Webb Space 
Telescope, NASA's next orbiting observatory scheduled to launch 
in 2014. The conferees are troubled by ongoing cost overruns 
and inaccurate phasing of reserves that have required the 
Committees to approve multiple adjustments to Webb's funding 
levels. These adjustments have totaled $95,000,000 in the last 
six months alone, and the Committees are aware that additional 
adjustments may be needed in fiscal year 2010. Before the 
Committees will consider any further adjustments, NASA shall 
provide to the Committees a report on the factors contributing 
to Webb's cost overruns and reserve phasing problems, 
identifying NASA's plans to address these issues and how it 
shall prevent such occurrences in the future.
      Jupiter system mission.--The conference agreement 
provides $15,500,000 to study further the Europa Jupiter system 
mission to address the primary risk to the mission, the energy 
particle radiation environment of Jupiter, as described in the 
House report. Included in these funds shall be efforts to 
assist the science community in responding to the announcement 
of opportunity for the instruments. The conferees direct NASA 
within 60 days of enactment to provide a projected full 
lifetime budget outline for the Europa mission, to include 
anticipated contributions from foreign partners, and an 
alternative budget profile that would accelerate the launch to 
2018.
      Heliophysics, sounding rockets operations.--Within the 
amounts provided for heliophysics sounding rockets operations, 
$5,000,000 is provided to continue advanced technology 
development of small satellites and unmanned aerial systems 
that have the potential of lowering the costs of space and 
Earth science missions.
      NASA is directed to increase its participation in 
suborbital missions that provide hands-on experience in STEM 
education.
      Solar probe plus.--The conference agreement includes 
$40,000,000 for the solar probe plus mission, the highest 
priority of the decadal survey in heliophysics. The conferees 
direct NASA to work aggressively to achieve a launch in 2015, 
and expect future budget requests to accommodate that launch 
date without jeopardizing other Science missions or programs.
      Magnetospheric multiscale (MMS).--The conference 
agreement provides the budget request of $118,600,000 for the 
MMS project. NASA is expected to maintain the full complement 
of science instruments for this mission and achieve a launch in 
2014.
      Planetary science, technology.--Within the funds provided 
for planetary science, resources are provided for test and 
development of thermal protection systems (TPS), such as coal-
based carbon foam ablative devices, in future missions to and 
from Mars and Moon.
      General reduction.--The conference agreement assumes a 
general reduction that may be applied to unobligated balances 
from prior years and to amounts provided herein. Such 
reductions shall not be assessed against those activities 
augmented by the Congress or otherwise addressed by this 
statement of the managers and shall be presented in NASA's 
initial operating plan.

                              AERONAUTICS

      The conference agreement provides $501,000,000 for 
aeronautics. Funds provided herein are available for two years 
to conduct and support aeronautics research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs; travel expenses; purchase and hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft. Funds for construction of facilities, including 
repair, renovation of existing facilities, construction of new 
facilities, facility planning and design, and for environmental 
compliance and restoration are provided in a separate, new 
account, as proposed by the House.
      Aviation safety.--Within the funds provided for aviation 
safety, $15,000,000 is included within the aeronautics program 
to establish a university affiliated research center (UARC) to 
collaborate with the Dryden National Flight Center to focus on 
unmanned aircraft systems remote sensing research applications 
and educational programs.

                              EXPLORATION

      The conference agreement provides $3,746,300,000 for 
exploration. Funds provided herein are available for two years 
to conduct and support exploration research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, 
support and services; maintenance; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs; travel expenses; purchase and hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft. Funds for construction of facilities, including 
repair, renovation of existing facilities, construction of new 
facilities, facility planning and design, and for environmental 
compliance and restoration are provided in a separate, new 
account, as proposed by the House.
      U.S. human spaceflight plans.--Appointed in June 2009 to 
conduct an independent review of the ongoing U.S. human 
spaceflight plans and programs, as well as alternatives, the 
Review of U.S. Human Spaceflight Plans Committee reported its 
findings in an October 2009 report. Outlining five broad 
options for the future of NASA's human spaceflight program, the 
committee noted that the current U.S. human spaceflight program 
is on an unsustainable trajectory and that its goals are not 
matched by financial resources. Given the current budgetary 
projections, the existing program cannot meet its established 
timelines and content. The gap in time in which the U.S. is 
without a human spaceflight capability will be at least six 
years, and more likely seven under current budgetary 
projections.
      The committee's work raises issues requiring thoughtful 
consideration by the Administration and the Congress, before 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate can 
recommend detailed funding levels. The conferees note that the 
Constellation program is the program for which funds have been 
authorized and appropriated over the last four years, and upon 
which the pending budget request is based. Accordingly, it is 
premature for the conferees to advocate or initiate significant 
changes to the current program absent a bona fide proposal from 
the Administration and subsequent assessment, consideration and 
enactment by Congress.
      To protect the jurisdiction and prerogatives of the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations and of the Congress 
generally while providing appropriate flexibility to the 
Administration in managing a complex research and development 
program, the conference agreement provides $3,466,400,000 for 
human exploration architecture development, the same level as 
the budget request. Changes in budgetary and programmatic 
requirements for fiscal year 2010 from the original budget 
request shall be submitted only in the form of a supplemental 
budget request for fiscal year 2010 and not through an initial 
operating plan or subsequent updates. Funds are not provided 
herein to initiate any new program, project or activity, not 
otherwise contemplated within the budget request and approved 
by Congress, consistent with section 505 of this Act, unless 
otherwise approved by the Congress in a subsequent 
appropriations Act. Funds are also not provided herein to 
cancel, terminate or significantly modify contracts related to 
the spacecraft architecture of the current program, unless such 
changes or modifications have been considered in subsequent 
appropriations Acts.
      The conferees note that the previous Administration 
failed to request a budget adequate to implement its Vision for 
Space Exploration while also maintaining a balanced portfolio 
of science and aeronautics programs, returning the Shuttle to 
flight after the Columbia accident and completing the 
International Space Station. Similarly, the current budget 
submittal for fiscal year 2010 and beyond significantly reduces 
planned funding for space exploration activities such that 
human exploration beyond low-Earth orbit is not viable under 
the fiscal year 2010 budget guideline. As the committee noted, 
``NASA's budget should match its mission and goals'' and 
``whatever space program is ultimately selected, it must be 
matched with the resources needed for its execution.'' It is 
the expressed hope of the conferees that the Administration 
will formulate its formal decision soon, submit its 
recommendation for congressional review and consideration, and 
budget the necessary resources to meet U.S. spaceflight program 
funding requirements identified in the Administration's 
recommendation and congressionally-approved program for space 
exploration while maintaining a balanced portfolio of science 
and aeronautics programs.
      Within the funds provided for human exploration 
architecture development, not less than $100,000,000 is 
provided for continuing investments in heavy-lift cargo launch 
capability. In addition, within the funds provided for human 
exploration architecture development, $39,100,000 is provided 
for commercial cargo activities (COTS A-C), the same level as 
the budget request.
      Microgravity research.--Within the funds provided for 
exploration technology development, the conference agreement 
provides $47,000,000 for microgravity research. Not later than 
90 days after enactment of this Act, NASA shall submit to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the planned 
expenditure of the amounts provided herein for microgravity 
research.
      Technology infusion projects.--The conference agreement 
provides $219,300,000 for technology infusion projects, within 
which funds are included for the development of new 
technologies to include filament wound aluminum metal matrix 
composite technology for use in cryogenic fuels systems for 
space vehicles.
      General reduction.--The conference agreement assumes a 
general reduction that may be applied to unobligated balances 
from prior years and to amounts provided herein. Such 
reductions shall not be assessed against those activities 
augmented by the Congress and shall be presented in the initial 
operating plan.

                            SPACE OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $6,146,800,000 for 
space operations. The conference agreement designates not more 
than $3,157,100,000 for Space Shuttle operations, production, 
research, development and support; not more than $2,317,000,000 
for International Space Station operations, production, 
research, development and support; and not more than 
$751,500,000 for Space and Flight Support operations, 
production, research, development and support. Funds provided 
herein are available for two years to conduct and support space 
operations research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support and services; 
maintenance; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
communications activities; program management; personnel and 
related costs; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft. Funds for 
construction of facilities, including repair, renovation of 
existing facilities, construction of new facilities, facility 
planning and design, and for environmental compliance and 
restoration are provided in a separate, new account, as 
proposed by the House.
      Space Shuttle.--The summary report of the Review of U.S. 
Human Space Flight Plans Committee noted that the projected 
flight rate of the Space Shuttle prior to its projected 
retirement is nearly twice that of the actual flight rate since 
return to flight after the Columbia accident, stating, 
``Recognizing that undue schedule and budget pressure can 
subtly impose a negative influence on safety, the Committee 
finds a more realistic schedule is prudent. With the remaining 
flights likely to stretch into the second quarter of 2011, the 
Committee considers it important to budget for Shuttle 
operations through that time.'' Accordingly, the Administration 
is urged to provide adequate funding for the remaining Shuttle 
flights in its fiscal year 2011 budget request without reducing 
other important and ongoing NASA activities.
      International Space Station (ISS) operations.--Within the 
amounts provided for ISS operations, $50,000,000 is provided to 
continue efforts in the use of next generation of human space 
flight architecture to service existing and future observatory-
class scientific spacecraft as identified in the conference 
report accompanying division B of Public Law 111-8. The 
activities to be undertaken shall be a joint project of the 
space operations, science and exploration mission directorates, 
and shall include technology demonstrations for both robotic 
and human servicing capabilities.
      Tracking and data relay satellite system.--NASA is 
directed to report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House and Senate not later than March 15, 2010, on options for 
accommodating increased mission load to the tracking and data 
relay satellite system, to include an examination of the 
feasibility of using off-the-shelf technologies.
      The conference agreement does not provide for a 
competitive grant program for launch infrastructure 
construction and upgrades at spaceports, as the Senate had 
proposed.
      General reduction.--The conference agreement assumes a 
general reduction that may be applied to unobligated balances 
from prior years and to amounts provided herein. Such 
reductions shall not be assessed against those activities 
augmented by the Congress or otherwise addressed by this 
statement of the managers and shall be presented in NASA's 
initial operating plan.

                               EDUCATION

      The conference agreement provides $182,500,000 for 
education.
      Education activities.--NASA is directed to include in its 
annual budget justifications the amount within each mission 
directorate for the past, current and budget year planned for 
education activities, and the specific purposes for which the 
funds are requested.
      National Space Grant College and Fellowship program.--For 
this program, the conference agreement provides $45,600,000 to 
fund 42 states or jurisdictions at $900,000 each and 10 states 
or jurisdictions at $700,000 each.
      Classroom of the Future.--The conference agreement 
provides $1,000,000 for the Classroom of the Future, as 
requested.
      Educational activities at NASA centers.--The conference 
agreement provides $7,000,000 for NASA visitor centers for the 
development of educational activities to be distributed in 
equal $700,000 increments to each center's visitor center for 
the development of educational activities. The conferees 
encourage NASA to make its visitor centers or their proxies 
available to all students and children up to grade 12 or age 18 
on a no-fee basis as such experiences should be integral 
components of a broad-based STEM education. NASA is further 
directed to review its educational portfolio to determine how 
such visitor centers can be better incorporated into NASA's 
efforts to inspire and educate students at all levels to pursue 
careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics. The findings of such a review and recommendations 
to improve student visitor experience and accessibility shall 
be submitted to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 90 days after enactment of the 
Act. NASA is directed to avoid implementation of any change to 
admission costs to any NASA visitor center for children up to 
grade 12 or age 18.
      Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students 
(EarthKAM) program.--Funds are provided within informal 
education to ensure that NASA increases its support for this 
program.

                          CROSS AGENCY SUPPORT

      The conference agreement includes $3,194,000,000 for 
cross agency support. Funds provided herein are available for 
two years for the conduct and support of science, aeronautics, 
exploration, space operations and education research and 
development activities, including research, development, 
operations, support and services; maintenance; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program 
management; personnel and related costs; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft. Funds for construction of facilities, 
including repair, renovation of existing facilities, 
construction of new facilities, facility planning and design, 
and for environmental compliance and restoration are provided 
in a separate, new account, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement designates within amounts 
appropriated $2,206,300,000 for center management and 
operations; $40,000,000 for independent verification and 
validation activities; and $63,000,000 for congressionally-
designated projects which are incorporated by reference. 
Provisions proposed by the House relating to enhanced use lease 
receipts have been incorporated, with modifications, under the 
``Construction and environmental compliance and remediation'' 
appropriation.
      The conference agreement provides the budget request for 
activities of NASA's Chief Engineer to increase direct 
technical support to high-risk aspects of NASA's missions in 
order to improve mission success, cost containment and schedule 
performance across all mission directorates.
      NASA is directed to include in its fiscal year 2011 
budget request an accounting of civil service salary and 
expense requirements contained in each program, as directed by 
the Senate report.
      Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, NASA 
is directed to provide a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the number of term 
positions to be funded under the Act, as well as a comparative 
summary of NASA's use of term positions since 1990.
      Small business innovative research (SBIR) and small 
business technology transfer research (STTR).--While the 
conference agreement identifies amounts for these activities at 
the levels requested by the Administration, the conferees note 
that funding for government-wide SBIR and STTR programs are set 
by statute at 2.5 percent and 0.3 percent of the agency's 
extramural research and development program, which has yet to 
be determined.
      Cybersecurity.--The conferees are concerned about recent 
cyber attacks against NASA and therefore direct NASA to partner 
with the National Security Agency to assure that NASA networks 
are secure and that its software verification process includes 
a rigorous cyber examination process.
      General reduction.--The conference agreement assumes a 
general reduction that may be applied to unobligated balances 
from prior years and to amounts provided herein. Such 
reductions shall not be assessed against those activities 
augmented by the Congress or otherwise addressed by this 
statement of the managers and shall be presented in NASA's 
initial operating plan.
      Congressionally-designated projects.--Within the 
appropriation for cross agency support, the conference 
agreement provides for the following congressionally-directed 
activities:


       CONSTRUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND REMEDIATION

      The conference agreement includes an appropriation of 
$448,300,000 for construction and environmental compliance and 
remediation. Appropriations are available for five years and 
shall be available for construction of facilities, including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of 
facilities, construction of new facilities and additions to new 
facilities, facility planning and design, and restoration, and 
acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by 
law, and environmental compliance and restoration. Funds for 
construction-related labor costs and travel are included within 
the amounts provided in the Cross Agency Support appropriation. 
Within this appropriation, the conference agreement designates 
the following amounts for each of the mission directorates, as 
shown below:

Science.................................................     $13,700,000
Exploration.............................................      90,800,000
Space Operations........................................      27,300,000
Cross agency support....................................     316,500,000
    Institutional investments, construction of 
      facilities........................................   (249,300,000)
    Environmental compliance and restoration............    (67,200,000)

      NASA is directed to provide to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations NASA form 1509 for each CoF 
project submitted in the annual budget request or an initial 
operating plan and for each CoF project subject to a 
reprogramming notification. In addition, NASA is directed 
within 90 days of enactment of this Act to provide to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a comprehensive five-
year plan detailing in priority order and by center projected 
facilities infrastructure improvements and construction needs 
across the NASA complex. The plan shall include current and 
projected mission assignments by center and how such proposed 
improvements meet each center's mission objectives.
      Leasing authorities and collections.--The conference 
agreement includes provisions relating to enhanced use leases 
(EULs): a provision that requires, hereafter, the deposit of 
all EUL proceeds into the construction account, provides for 
five-year availability, and subjects all EUL receipts to annual 
appropriations Acts prior to their availability; a provision 
that limits to $6,226,000 the expenditure of EUL receipts to 
the level planned by NASA in its official submission; and a 
provision that requires each annual budget request to include 
an annual estimate of gross EUL receipts and proposed uses of 
such receipts. Similar provisions were proposed by the House 
under the ``Cross Agency Support'' appropriation.
      NASA is directed to continue its moratorium on any new 
enhanced use leases until it promulgates and disseminates to 
the centers and the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate its final desk guidance on the administration and 
execution of the EUL program. In addition, NASA is further 
directed to submit a separate operating plan by center on the 
proposed use of all receipts and collections in fiscal year 
2010 prior to the expenditure of such funds, and any deviation 
from such approved plan shall be subject to section 505 of this 
Act. Lastly, NASA shall submit with its annual budget 
submission a separate accounting by center of gross receipts 
and collections and proposed use of all funds collected under 
its leasing authority. Such material shall include a detailed 
presentation of all proposed expenditures, to include but not 
limited to full-time equivalent (FTE) staff years and object 
class data, minor renovation projects proposed to be undertaken 
with requested amounts for each project, and justification for 
such proposed expenditures by project or activity.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $36,400,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General, which shall be available for one 
year.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement contains language regarding the 
availability of funds for announced prizes.
      The conference agreement contains language providing for 
the transfer of certain amounts between appropriations 
accounts.
      The conference agreement contains language prohibiting 
any reduction in force or other involuntary separations in 
fiscal year 2010.
      The conference agreement contains language regarding 
transfers of unexpired balances.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
proposed by the Senate which provided that funding designations 
and minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act 
shall not be applicable to funds provided in this Act for NASA.
      The conference agreement does not include administrative 
provisions proposed by the Senate regarding the period of 
availability of funds allocated for construction and 
environmental compliance activities within appropriations made 
for the various mission directorates. The conference agreement 
provides for a new, separate appropriation for construction and 
environmental remediation, eliminating the need for the 
administrative provisions proposed by the Senate.

                      National Science Foundation

      The conference agreement includes $6,926,510,000 for the 
National Science Foundation (NSF), consistent with the ongoing 
effort to double the agency's budget over a ten-year period.
      The conferees are concerned with continuity in the level 
of support for research and development at the National Science 
Foundation and reiterate concerns expressed by the House that 
the request for fiscal year 2011 should represent at least a 
seven percent increase for NSF over the conference agreement 
level for fiscal year 2010 in order to sustain the planned 
doubling of the Foundation's budget.
      The conferees support House direction to the Foundation 
to convene a panel of experts to survey pre-K to 12 schools 
that are highly successful in science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics (STEM) education and submit a report of the 
findings and recommendations of this panel to the Committees 
within 180 days of the enactment of this Act.

                    RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $5,617,920,000 for 
research and related activities.
      The conference agreement transfers $54,000,000 from NSF 
to the United States Coast Guard (USCG) for icebreaking 
services to cover all anticipated operation and maintenance 
costs for fiscal year 2010. The conferees expect that in future 
years all operation and maintenance budget authority for these 
USCG icebreakers will be requested by the Department of 
Homeland Security.
      Within the funds provided, the conferees direct NSF to 
maintain funding at the levels requested for the following 
activities:
            Climate change
            Cyber-enabled discovery and innovation
            Science and engineering beyond Moore's law
            Adaptive systems technology
            Dynamics of water processes in the environment
            National Radio Astronomy Observatory
      In addition, the conferees support House direction on 
high-risk, high-reward basic research; funding for research on 
ocean acidification; support for 2,000 graduate research 
fellowships across all of NSF; climate change education; and 
funding of EPSCoR. Beyond these requirements, the conferees 
expect NSF to accommodate the reduction from the request based 
on its judgment of where funding will be used most effectively.
      The conferees support the direction in the Senate report 
with respect to VORTEX2.
      The conferees direct NSF to transfer $100,000 to the 
National Academy of Sciences as directed by the House.
      Hydrology, terrestrial ecosystems and soils.--The 
conferees see the need for an appropriate mechanism to bring 
together the hydrology research community and better integrate 
the different types of data and observing systems and enhance 
support of hydrology modeling, and to institutionalize this 
mechanism. The conferees also see the need for an appropriate 
mechanism to bring together the terrestrial ecology and soils 
research communities. NSF is directed to report its 
recommendations on the need for and establishment of mechanisms 
in these two areas with the budget request for fiscal year 
2011.
      Gemini telescope.--The conferees recognize that the 
Gemini international telescope agreement is scheduled for 
renewal in 2012. The United States currently has a 50 percent 
share in this project, which originated in 1992, and today 
includes the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Brazil, 
Argentina, and Chile as partners. Given the scientific 
importance of the Southern Hemisphere Gemini Observatory, NSF 
is encouraged to continue and, if possible on favorable terms, 
expand U.S. support in the upcoming renewal negotiations to 
acquire additional telescope time for NSF investigators.
      GLOBE.--The conferees are aware that NSF continues to 
support the GLOBE program and encourage the agency to continue 
this support and to work with NASA and NOAA and to support the 
OSTP review of the program.
      EPSCoR.--The conferees request that NSF examine new 
approaches and innovative efforts within EPSCoR to assist 
States within the program, including but not limited to, 
additional co-funding opportunities and EAGER awards, efforts 
to better ensure participation in new initiatives, and other 
activities as appropriate.

          MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $117,290,000 for Major 
Research Equipment and Facilities Construction, and prohibits 
funds from being used for reimbursement of the Judgment Fund. 
The agreement supports the following items at the indicated 
amounts:

Advanced LIGO...........................................     $46,300,000
Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA)...................      42,760,000
Advanced Technology Solar Telescope (ATST)..............      13,000,000
Ocean Observatories Initiative (OOI)....................      14,280,000
Ice Cube................................................         950,000

                     EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES

      The conference agreement provides $872,760,000 for 
Education and Human Resources. The increase over the budget 
request is to support additional work in experiential learning 
as directed by the House with a substantial portion of the 
initiative focused on K-6 STEM education. The recommendation 
includes adjustments to the budget request for specific 
programs, as follows:

Discovery research K-12.................................    +$10,000,000
Research and evaluation on education in science and 
    engineering.........................................      +2,500,000
Course, curriculum and laboratory improvement...........      +2,500,000
      The conferees direct NSF to provide a report detailing 
plans to establish a Hispanic Serving Institutions--
Undergraduate Program no later than 90 days following enactment 
of this Act. The conferees expect a significant funding request 
for such a program to be included in NSF's fiscal year 2011 
budget request.
      The conferees are concerned that K-12 students need a 
better foundation in geographic literacy, and direct NSF to 
work with external partners with experience in geographic 
education to improve geography teaching, training and research 
in our Nation's schools.
      The conferees support the Foundation's request of 
$55,000,000 for the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program.

                 AGENCY OPERATIONS AND AWARD MANAGEMENT

      The conference agreement provides $300,000,000 for agency 
operations and award management.
      The conferees recognize that NSF excels at creating and 
managing external relations, providing valuable financial and 
professional leadership for the Nation's scientific 
communities, particularly in the competitive solicitation and 
award of research and educational grants and fellowships. 
Internally the agency must do better to provide a safe and 
productive work environment for all of its employees. The 
conferees reinforce the need for formal reviews from both the 
NSF directorate and the Office of Inspector General on the 
agency's personnel management practices as outlined in the 
Senate report. In addition, the conferees support the Senate's 
report language identifying the need to improve grant 
management and accountability.

                  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD

      The conference agreement provides $4,540,000 for the 
National Science Board. The conferees direct the National 
Science Board to use the increase of funds above the request 
for obtaining a General Counsel independent of the National 
Science Foundation.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $14,000,000 for the 
Inspector General, the same as the request.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $9,400,000 for the 
Commission on Civil Rights.
      Support of State Advisory Committees (SACs).--The 
Commission shall submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a biannual report listing the 51 SACs and the 
expiration date of the most recent charter for each. The report 
should also include the projected date of re-chartering for 
those SACs whose most recent charter has expired and a 
description of the recent activities undertaken by those that 
do have an active charter.
      The conferees urge the Commission to ensure that its 
regional office staffing plan is coordinated with its charter 
expansion plan so that newly reinvigorated SACs will have the 
operational support necessary to succeed.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $367,303,000 for the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).
      Backlog reduction.--The conferees urge EEOC to develop 
and implement a multiyear plan to increase EEOC staffing to the 
levels necessary to achieve backlog reduction in a timely 
manner. In the meantime, EEOC shall submit to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations quarterly reports on 
projected and actual agency staffing levels so EEOC's personnel 
resources can be better monitored.
      Workload projections.--Workload projections should be 
continually calibrated with actual data as it becomes available 
through midyear reviews and other means. EEOC shall also ensure 
that its workload projections account for necessary changes in 
overtime policy as required by a March 23, 2009 arbitration 
decision addressing EEOC overtime payments.
      Federal sector hearings.--EEOC shall submit to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 60 days of the 
enactment of this Act an implementation plan for the new 
Federal sector hearing process, including background on the 
need for these changes, the proposed implementation schedule 
and an analysis of the potential impact, both positive and 
negative, on the ability of Federal employees to get a fair 
hearing under the track system.

                     International Trade Commission

      The conference agreement provides $81,860,000 for the 
International Trade Commission for fiscal year 2010.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

      The conference agreement provides $420,000,000 for the 
Legal Services Corporation (LSC).
      Accountability and oversight.--Over the past three years, 
GAO, the LSC Inspector General and the Audit Committee of the 
LSC Board of Directors have issued multiple findings of 
management and oversight weaknesses at the Corporation. LSC has 
made a public commitment to address each of these findings, 
and, as evidenced by recent GAO testimony, has made progress by 
implementing necessary corrective actions in a number of areas. 
However, as also evidenced by GAO's testimony, additional work 
remains to complete the full list of recommended actions.
      The conferees have been, and remain, concerned about 
these gaps in LSC's management and accountability controls, 
which leave the Corporation vulnerable to improper expenditures 
or instances of waste by grantees. The timely resolution of 
these remaining issues must be a Corporation priority. 
Consequently, the conferees direct the Corporation's President 
and Chairman of the Board of Directors to report jointly to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations no later than 
February 1, 2010, to certify that the Corporation has met the 
requirements for management practices and policies, as well as 
governance standards and guidelines.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

      A general provision in Title V of the bill revises the 
administrative provision in order to permit grantees to pursue 
the recovery of attorney's fees when recovery is permitted or 
required under Federal or State law. The conferees believe that 
this action will level the playing field between legal aid 
attorneys and their counterparts in the private sector and 
provide a potentially crucial source of additional revenue to 
legal aid providers in a year in which State and private 
funding sources are decreasing.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $3,250,000 for the 
Marine Mammal Commission for fiscal year 2010.
      The Commission is directed to submit a report to Congress 
prioritizing international research and conservation efforts of 
marine mammals.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $47,826,000 for the 
Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) for 
fiscal year 2010.
      World Trade Organization.--The conferees are aware of the 
World Trade Organization (WTO) Appellate Body's January 16, 
2003, ruling regarding the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset 
Act (Public Law 106-387). The conferees direct USTR, in 
consultation with the Department of Commerce, to continue to 
negotiate within the WTO to seek express recognition of the 
existing right of WTO members to distribute monies collected 
from antidumping and countervailing duties as they deem 
appropriate. The agency shall consult with and provide regular 
reports every 60 days to the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees on this matter.
      In addition, the conferees direct that negotiations be 
conducted within the WTO consistent with the negotiating 
objectives contained in the Trade Act of 2002, Public Law 107-
210, to maintain strong U.S. trade remedies laws, prevent 
overreaching by WTO Panels and the WTO Appellate Body, and 
prevent the creation of obligations never negotiated or agreed 
to by the United States.
      Climate change.--Countries in Southeast Asia are 
particularly vulnerable to the potentially destructive impacts 
of climate change. U.S. companies have the capacity to provide 
valuable expertise and install advanced weather forecasting 
infrastructure and other reliable technologies addressing 
climate change adaptation and mitigation. The conferees direct 
the USTR to report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on the status of U.S. company engagement with 
Southeast Asian nations on these efforts no later than March 
30, 2010.

                        State Justice Institute

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $5,131,000 for the 
State Justice Institute.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

      Section 501 prohibits the use of funds for publicity or 
propaganda purposes unless expressly authorized by law.
      Section 502 prohibits any appropriation contained in this 
Act from remaining available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year unless expressly authorized.
      Section 503 provides that the expenditure of any 
appropriation contained in the Act for any consulting service 
through procurement contracts shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise 
provided under existing law or existing Executive Order issued 
pursuant to existing law.
      Section 504 provides that if any provision of this Act or 
the application of such provision to any person or circumstance 
shall be held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the 
application of such provisions to persons or circumstances 
other than those to which it is held invalid shall not be 
affected.
      Section 505 provides for the reprogramming of funds. 
Section 505(a) prohibits the reprogramming of funds which: (1) 
creates or initiates a new program, project or activity; (2) 
eliminates a program, project, or activity, unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance; (3) increases funds or personnel 
by any means for any project or activity for which funds have 
been denied or restricted, unless the Appropriations Committees 
of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in advance; (4) 
relocates offices or employees, unless the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in 
advance; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, programs or 
activities, unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses 
of Congress are notified 15 days in advance; (6) contracts out 
or privatizes any function or activity presently performed by 
Federal employees, unless the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in advance; (7) 
proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity by 
either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations, unless 
the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance; (8) augments funds for existing 
programs, projects or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding 
for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of 
personnel by 10 percent as approved by Congress, unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance; or (9) results from any general 
savings, including savings from a reduction in personnel, which 
would result in a change in existing programs, activities, or 
projects as approved by Congress, unless the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in 
advance. No reprogrammings of funds are permitted after August 
1, except in extraordinary circumstances, and only after the 
House and Senate Committees are notified in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds. Agencies must follow reprogramming of 
funds with respect to carryover funds.
      Section 506 prohibits funds from being used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on religion 
similar to proposed guidelines published by the EEOC in October 
1993.
      Section 507 provides that if it is determined that any 
person intentionally affixes a ``Made in America'' label to any 
product that was not made in America that person shall not be 
eligible to receive any contract or subcontract with funds made 
available in this Act.
      Section 508 requires quarterly reporting to Congress of 
unobligated balances that were received during any previous 
fiscal year.
      Section 509 provides that any closing or downsizing costs 
incurred by a department or agency funded under this Act 
resulting from funding reductions in the Act shall be absorbed 
within the budgetary resources available to the Department or 
agency, and provides transfer authority between appropriation 
accounts to carry out the provision, subject to reprogramming 
procedures.
      Section 510 prohibits funds made available in this Act 
from being used to promote the sale or export of tobacco or 
tobacco products or to seek the reduction or removal of foreign 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco products, provided 
that such restrictions are applied equally to all tobacco 
products or tobacco products of the same type. This provision 
is not intended to impact routine international trade services 
to all U.S. citizens, including the processing of applications 
to establish foreign trade zones.
      Section 511 prohibits funds made available in this Act 
from being used to implement a Federal user fee for background 
checks conducted pursuant to the Brady Handgun Control Act of 
1993, or to implement a background check system that does not 
require and result in the destruction of certain information 
within 24 hours.
      Section 512 delays the obligations of any receipts 
deposited into the Crime Victims Fund in excess of $705,000,000 
until October 1, 2010. This language is continued to ensure a 
stable source of funds will remain available for the program, 
despite inconsistent levels of criminal fines deposited 
annually into the Fund.
      Section 513 prohibits the use of Department of Justice 
funds for programs that discriminate against or denigrate the 
religious beliefs of students participating in such programs.
      Section 514 prohibits the transfer of funds in the Act to 
any department or agency of the United States Government, 
except for transfers made under authorities provided in this or 
any other appropriations Act.
      Section 515 provides that funds provided for E-Government 
Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act.
      Section 516 requires the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives to include specific language in any 
release of tracing study data that makes clear that trace data 
cannot be used to draw broad conclusions about firearms-related 
crimes.
      Section 517 requires certain timetables of audits 
performed by Inspectors General of the departments and agencies 
funded in this Act.
      Section 518 prohibits the use of process patents of human 
organisms. The intent of this provision is as expressed in the 
colloquy between the provision's sponsor in the House and the 
Ranking Minority Member of the House Committee on 
Appropriations as occurred on July 22, 2003, with respect to 
any existing patents on stem cells.
      Section 519 prohibits the use of funds in this Act to be 
used to support or justify torture by any official or contract 
employee of the United States Government.
      Section 520 prohibits the use of funds in this Act to 
require certain export licenses.
      Section 521 prohibits the use of funds in this Act to 
deny certain import applications regarding ``curios or relics'' 
firearms, parts, or ammunition.
      Section 522 prohibits the use of funds to include certain 
language in trade agreements.
      Section 523 prohibits the use of funds in this Act to 
authorize or issue a National Security Letter (NSL) in 
contravention of certain laws authorizing the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to issue NSLs.
      Section 524 requires the congressional notification of 
any project within the Departments of Commerce or Justice, or 
the National Science Foundation and the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration totaling more than $75,000,000 that 
has cost increases of at least 10 percent.
      Section 525 deems funds for intelligence or intelligence-
related activities as authorized by the Congress until the 
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2010.
      Section 526 requires the departments and agencies funded 
in this Act to establish and maintain on the homepages of their 
Internet websites direct links to the Internet websites of 
their Offices of Inspectors General, and a mechanism by which 
individuals may anonymously report cases of waste, fraud or 
abuse.
      Section 527 prohibits contracts or grant awards in excess 
of $5,000,000 unless the prospective contractor or grantee 
certifies that the organization has filed all Federal tax 
returns, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
IRS Code of 1986, and has no unpaid Federal tax assessment.
      Section 528 prohibits the use of funds in this Act that 
is inconsistent with the principal negotiating objective of the 
United States with respect to trade remedy laws.
      Section 529 provides for rescissions of unobligated 
balances in certain departments and agencies funded in this 
Act.
      Section 530 prohibits the use of funds in this Act for 
the purchase of first class or premium air travel.
      Section 531 prohibits the use of funds to pay the 
attendance of more than 50 employees at any single conference 
outside the United States. The conferees do not intend for this 
provision to apply to law enforcement training and/or 
operational conferences for law enforcement personnel when the 
majority of Federal employees in attendance are law enforcement 
personnel stationed outside the United States.
      Section 532 modifies a provision included by the House 
regarding detainees from Guantanamo Bay.
      Section 533 permits LSC grantees to pursue the recovery 
of attorney's fees when permitted or required by law.
      Section 534 prohibits the distribution of funds contained 
in this Act to the Association of Community Organizations for 
Reform Now (ACORN) or its subsidiaries.
      Section 535 requires the Comptroller General of the 
United States to conduct a review and audit of Federal funds 
received by ACORN, any subsidiary or affiliate of ACORN.
      Section 536 requires, when practicable, the use of funds 
in this Act to purchase light bulbs that have the ``Energy 
Star'' or ``Federal Energy Management Program'' designation.
      Section 537 requires agencies funded in this Act to track 
and report on undisbursed balances in expired accounts.
      Section 538 prohibits the use of funds to relocate the 
Bureau of the Census or employees from the Department of 
Commerce to the jurisdiction of the Executive Office of the 
President.
      Section 539 requires that specific projects funded in the 
report of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives that are considered congressional earmarks for 
purposes of clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, when intended to be awarded to a for-profit 
entity, shall be awarded under a full and open competition.
      The conference agreement does not contain a provision 
proposed by the House authorizing the Attorney General to 
provide qualified relocation expenses.

                                TITLE VI

                     ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement does not include an 
appropriation for the Office on Violence Against Women as 
proposed by the House. Appropriations for this activity are 
provided in Title II of this Act.

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Following is a list of congressional earmarks and 
congressionally directed spending items (as defined in clause 9 
of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, respectively) 
included in the conference report or the accompanying joint 
statement of managers, along with the name of each Senator, 
House Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who submitted 
a request to the Committee of jurisdiction for each item so 
identified. Neither the conference report nor the joint 
statement of managers contains any limited tax benefits or 
limited tariff benefits as defined in the applicable House or 
Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of rule XXI of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives, none of the congressional 
earmarks listed below were committed to the conference 
committee on H.R. 3288. However, all the following items were 
either (1) included in the Commerce, Justice, Science and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (H.R. 2847) as passed 
by the House or Senate, or (2) in a report of the committee of 
either House on H.R. 2847.

                                                                                   COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                               Requester(s)
   Agency        Account                       Recipient                                       Project                        Amount    --------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                            Administration          House            Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           GP             Department of Commerce, Washington, DC        HCHB Renovation and Modernization Project        $22,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           NDIC           National Drug Intelligence Center,            Operations of the NDIC                           $44,023,000  The President
                              Johnstown, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                                   COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                Requester(s)
   Agency         Account                       Recipient                                         Title                          Amount    -----------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                         House                     Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             Clemson University, Clemson, SC                Textile Research at Clemson University               $350,000  Barrett (SC)                    Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             Midwest China Hub Commission, St. Louis, MO    Midwest China Hub Commission                         $500,000                                  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             National Textile Center, Raleigh, NC           Textile Research                                   $1,800,000  Price (NC); Coble;              Schumer
                                                                                                                                             Butterfield; Etheridge;
                                                                                                                                             McIntyre; Miller (NC); Scott
                                                                                                                                             (GA); Shuler; Watt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             Philadelphia University, Philadelphia, PA      Textile Research and Development                     $500,000                                  Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             St. Francis University and St. Vincent         St. Francis University Center for Global             $350,000  Murtha
                               College, Loretto, PA                           Competitiveness
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             Textile/Clothing Textile Corporation,          Textile Research Programs                            $965,000  Price (NC); Aderholt; Coble;    Graham; Burr; Hagan
                               Raleigh, NC                                                                                                   Butterfield; Kissell; Miller
                                                                                                                                             (NC); Shuler; Spratt; Watt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             UC Davis, Davis, CA                            Textile Research at UC Davis                         $250,000  Thompson (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           ITA             University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE    International Trade Scholars Program                 $500,000                                  Nelson, Ben
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           MBDA            Jamaica Chamber of Commerce, Jamaica, NY       Jamaica Export Center                                $100,000  Meeks (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           MBDA            McAllen Economic Development Corporation,      McAllen Manufacturing Research and Education         $300,000  Hinojosa
                               McAllen, TX                                    Park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           MBDA            Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians, Choctaw,  Choctaw Native American Business Enterprise          $200,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               MS                                             Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           MBDA            West Liberty State College, West Liberty, WV   Emerging Minority Business Leaders                   $500,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-           Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS   Expansion of the Research, Technology and          $6,000,000  Childers; Harper                Cochran; Wicker
               Construction                                                   Economic Development Park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-           North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND       Advanced Nanomaterials Research Facility           $5,000,000                                  Dorgan; Conrad
               Construction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-           University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL          Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering         $30,000,000                                  Shelby
               Construction                                                   Teaching and Research Corridor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-           University of Mississippi Medical Center,      The Mississippi Biotechnology Research Park        $6,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
               Construction    Jackson, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       George Mason University, Arlington, VA         Center for Infrastructure Protection (CIP)           $550,000  Connolly (VA); Moran (VA)       Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       LSU A&M, Baton Rouge, LA                       Center for Digital Innovation                      $1,000,000                                  Landrieu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       University at Albany (SUNY), College of        A Collaboration with NIST for the Development        $500,000  Israel; Tonko                   Schumer; Gillibrand
                               Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE),      and Deployment of New Nanoscale Measurement
                               Albany, NY                                     Strategies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       University of Hawaii, Maui, HI                 Hawaii Open Supercomputing Center                  $5,000,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY          University of Kentucky Firefighter Gear Safety       $200,000                                  McConnell
                                                                              Research Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       University of Maryland Baltimore County,       Maryland Center of Excellence for Terahertz        $2,000,000                                  Mikulski
                               Baltimore, MD                                  Science and Application
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NIST-STRS       University of Rhode Island, Kingston, RI       Rhode Island Consortium for Nanoscience and        $1,250,000                                  Reed; Whitehouse
                                                                              Nanotechnology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Appalachian Mountain Club, Boston, MA          Climate Change and Air Pollutant Impacts to New      $350,000  Hodes; Shea-Porter              Gregg; Shaheen
                                                                              Englands Rare Alpine Zone
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Blue Guardians, Philadelphia, PA               Coastal Environmental Education Outreach             $500,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Bowling Green State University, Bowling        Monitoring of Lake Erie Water Quality with           $500,000  Latta                           Voinovich; Brown
                               Green, OH                                      Remote Sensing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        California State Coastal Conservancy,          California Seafloor Mapping Program                  $300,000  Schiff; Capps
                               Oakland, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Caribbean Coral Reef Institute, University of  Caribbean Coral Reef Institute Grant Program         $100,000  Pierluisi
                               Puerto Rico, Mayaguez, PR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Chesapeake Bay Environmental Center,           Chesapeake Bay Environmental Center                  $250,000  Kratovil                        Mikulski
                               Grasonville, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons,    Alliance for Coastal Technologies                    $500,000  Hoyer
                               MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        City of Hardy, Hardy, AR                       Upper Spring River Flood Warning System              $125,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Commercial Fisheries Research Foundation,      Cooperative Research and Technical Assistance        $600,000                                  Reed
                               Saunderstown, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Dauphin Island Sea Lab, Dauphin Island, AL     Biological and economic consideration of             $750,000  Bonner
                                                                              coastal fisheries population
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Delaware River Basin Commission, West          Delaware River Enhanced Flood Warning System         $200,000  Hinchey; Castle; Dent; Hall     Lautenberg;
                               Trenton, NJ                                                                                                   (NY); Holt                      Menendez; Carper;
                                                                                                                                                                             Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Department of Lands and Natural Resources,     Mariana Islands Sanctuary Scoping and Outreach       $220,000  Sablan
                               Saipan, MP
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, Inc., Somerset, KY     Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, Inc.                       $1,000,000  Rogers (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, MI     Hyperspectral Remote Sensing and Science-Based       $500,000  Dingell; Conyers                Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Management of Invasive Species in the Detroit
                                                                              River International Wildlife Refuge
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Daytona  Aviation and Hurricane Research Utilizing            $300,000  Kosmas                          Nelson, Bill
                               Beach, FL                                      Unmanned Aerial Systems
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation         Gulf of Mexico Recreational Fishery Electronic        $50,000                                  Nelson, Bill
                               Commission, Tallahassee, FL                    Logbook Pilot
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Florida International University, Miami, FL    Observing, Modeling, and Visualizing Storm           $100,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln            Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              Surge Inundation                                                                               Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL      Center for the Study of Vapor Mercury in the         $500,000                                  Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              Atmosphere                                                                                     Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Great Lakes Science Center, Cleveland, OH      Great Lakes Water Project                            $250,000  LaTourette
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Hawaii Community Foundation, Honolulu, HI      Hawaii Marine Fund                                 $1,000,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Hawaii Division of Forestry and Wildlife,      Protected Species Habitat at Kure Atoll (HI)         $100,000  Hirono
                               Hawaii Department of Land and Natural
                               Resources, Honolulu, HI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID          Boise Center Aerospace Laboratory Watershed          $500,000  Simpson                         Crapo; Risch
                                                                              Modeling Utilizing LiDAR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Illinois State Geological Survey, Champiagn,   Illinois Height Modernization                        $800,000  Johnson (IL); Schock
                               IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Indigenous People's Council for Marine         Marine Mammal Research                               $500,000  Young (AK)                      Begich
                               Mammals, Anchorage, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Institute for Marine Mammal Studies,           Center for Marine Education and Research-Ocean     $1,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               Gulfport, MS                                   Expo--Learning Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Jackson State University, Jackson, MS          Regional Ensembling System for Atmospheric         $1,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                                                                              Dispersion Forecasting
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        JASON Project, Ashburn, VA                     Science education through exploration              $8,300,000  Mollohan; Kennedy; Culberson;
                                                                                                                                             Langevin; Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Louisiana State University A&M College, Baton  The Louisiana Geodetic Spatial Reference Center      $700,000  Alexander
                               Rouge, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Maine Department of Marine Resources,          Continuation of Protected Species Bycatch            $550,000                                  Collins; Snowe
                               Augusta, ME                                    Reduction Maine Groundline Exchange Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Maine Department of Marine Resources,          Groundfish Industry Emergency Economic             $1,000,000  Michaud                         Collins; Snowe
                               Augusta, ME                                    Assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Maine Department of Marine Resources,          Herring Monitoring Research                          $300,000  Michaud                         Collins; Snowe
                               Augusta, ME
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Maine Department of Marine Resources,          Maine Lobster Research                               $200,000  Pingree (ME); Michaud           Snowe
                               Augusta, ME
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Marine Mammal Center, Sausalito, CA            Emergency Response and Health Investigations         $300,000  Woolsey
                                                                              for Endangered and Threatened Pinniped
                                                                              Populations in the Pacific
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Massachusetts Marine Fisheries Institute, New  Scallop Fishery Assessment (MFI)                   $1,000,000                                  Kennedy; Kerry
                               Bedford, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS   NOAA Northern Gulf Institute                       $4,500,000  Harper                          Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Mobile County Commission, Mobile, AL           Coastal tidal gauges                                 $600,000  Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Monmouth University, West Long Branch, NJ      The Resilient Coastal Urban Community and            $250,000  Pallone; Holt; Rothman (NJ);    Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Ecosystem (RESCUE) Initiative                                  Smith (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Morgan State University Estuarine Research     Oyster Hatchery Economic Pilot Program               $200,000  Hoyer; Cummings
                               Center, St. Leonard, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Mote Marine Laboratory, Sarasota, FL           Science Consortium for Ocean Replenishment         $1,500,000  Buchanan; Dicks                 Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              (SCORE)                                                                                        Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        National Marine Fisheries Service, Silver      Shrimp Industry Fishing Effort Research              $700,000  Ortiz; Boyd; Cao; Crenshaw;     Cochran; Nelson,
                               Spring, MD                                     Continuation                                                   Wasserman Schultz               Bill; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        National Oceanic and Atmospheric               West Coast Governors' Agreement on Ocean Health      $500,000  Farr; Blumenauer; Capps; Wu
                               Administration, Silver Spring, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Nature Conservancy, Middletown, CT             Ecosystem Vitality Through Habitat Restoration       $200,000  DeLauro; Bishop (NY)            Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        New England Aquarium, Boston, MA               Consortium for Wildlife Bycatch Reduction          $1,250,000  Lynch; Michaud                  Collins; Kennedy;
                                                                                                                                                                             Kerry; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        New Hampshire Fish & Wildlife, Concord, NH     NH Commercial Fishermen Sustainability               $825,000                                  Gregg; Shaheen
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Nicholls State University Department of        Institute for Seafood Studies                        $325,000  Melancon
                               Biological Sciences, Thibodaux, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office, Annapolis, MD      Chesapeake Bay Interpretive Buoy System              $500,000  Kratovil; Sarbanes;             Mikulski; Carper;
                                                                                                                                             Ruppersberger; Castle; Moran    Cardin; Kaufman
                                                                                                                                             (VA); Scott (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office, Annapolis, MD      Chesapeake Bay Oyster Restoration                  $3,000,000  Hoyer; Connolly (VA); Edwards   Mikulski; Cardin;
                                                                                                                                             (MD); Kratovil; Moran (VA);     Webb; Warner
                                                                                                                                             Norton; Ruppersberger;
                                                                                                                                             Sarbanes; Scott (VA); Van
                                                                                                                                             Hollen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Office of Education, Monterey, CA         California Bay Watershed Education and Training    $2,500,000  Pelosi; Farr; Capps
                                                                              Program (B-WET)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Office of Education, Silver Spring, MD    Marine Education Program in Hawaii                 $1,750,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Office of Protected Resources, Silver     Hawaiian Monk Seal Recovery Plan Implementation      $275,000  Hirono
                               Spring, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA Southeast Science Center, Miami, FL       Turtle Protection Funding/Gulf of Mexico             $250,000                                  Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Grouper Fishery
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA/Fisheries, Honolulu, HI                   Hawaii Seafood Safety and Sustainability           $1,500,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA/Fisheries, Honolulu, HI                   Magnuson-Stevens: Marine Education and Training    $1,000,000                                  Inouye; Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA/Fisheries, Honolulu, HI                   Western and Central Pacific Fisheries              $3,000,000                                  Inouye
                                                                              Commission (WCPFC) Big Eye Tuna Quotas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA/Fisheries, Honolulu, HI                   Western Pacific Integrated Ecosystem                 $500,000                                  Inouye
                                                                              Assessments
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        NOAA/Satellite, Honolulu, HI                   Integrated Data and Environmental Applications     $3,000,000                                  Inouye
                                                                              (IDEA) Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Northwest Straits Commission, Mount Vernon,    Northwest Straits Marine Conservation              $1,600,000  Larsen (WA)                     Murray; Cantwell
                               WA                                             Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Nova Southeastern University, Fort             National Coral Reef Institute                        $200,000  Klein (FL); Wasserman Schultz   Nelson, Bill;
                               Lauderdale, FL                                                                                                                                Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Oceanic Institute, Waimanalu, HI               Hawaii Fisheries Development                         $400,000  Abercrombie; Hirono             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR         Disease Reduction in Klamath River Salmon            $600,000  Walden; DeFazio; Schrader; Wu   Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Pacific Coast Shellfish Growers Association,   Emergency Plan to Save Oyster Production on the      $500,000                                  Cantwell
                               Port Townsend, WA                              West Coast
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Partnership for Mid-Atlantic Fisheries         Partnership for Mid-Atlantic Fisheries Science     $1,000,000  LoBiondo; Bishop (NY); King     Lautenberg;
                               Science (PMAFS), Mellville, NY                 (PMAFS)--Fish stock improvement initiative                     (NY); Pallone                   Menendez; Schumer;
                                                                                                                                                                             Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Plymouth State University, Plymouth, NH        New England Weather Technology and Research          $250,000                                  Gregg
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Provincetown Center for Coastal Studies,       Northeast Coastal Monitoring Collaborative           $550,000  Delahunt; Tsongas               Kennedy; Kerry
                               Provincetown, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, AL               Redstone UAS Development for Weather and             $300,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Atmospheric Research
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI         Narragansett Bay Shellfish Restoration               $500,000                                  Reed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        San Jose State University, San Jose, CA        Training the Next Generation Weather                 $180,000  Honda
                                                                              Forecasters
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Save the Bay, Providence, RI                   Marine Education Program                           $1,000,000  Kennedy                         Reed; Whitehouse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        School for Marine Science and Technology       New England Multi-Species Surveys and              $3,000,000                                  Kennedy; Kerry
                               (SMAST), New Bedford, MA                       Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Society for the Preservation of New Hampshire  Merrimack River Fish Habitat Conservation            $300,000  Hodes                           Gregg; Shaheen
                               Forests (SPNHF), Concord, NH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Southern Regional Climate Center, Baton        NOAA Regional Climate Center program                 $850,000  Alexander                       Landrieu
                               Rouge, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        State of Alaska, Coastal Alaska, AK            Seal and Steller Sea Lion Biological Research        $300,000                                  Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        State of Alaska, Statewide, AK                 Bering Sea Crab Management and Research              $300,000                                  Murkowski; Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        State of Alaska, Yukon River, AK               US/Canada Yukon River Salmon Agreement Studies       $500,000                                  Murkowski; Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        State of Wisconsin, Madison, WI                Wisconsin Height Modernization Program             $1,000,000  Kagen; Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        State University of New York, College of       Carbon Sequestration and Climate Change Models       $100,000  Arcuri; Tonko
                               Environmental Science and Forestry,            for NY State Forests
                               Syracuse, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Susquehanna River Basin Commission,            Susquehanna Flood Forecast and Warning System      $2,400,000  Kratovil; Ruppersberger         Mikulski
                               Harrisburg, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Texas A&M University--Corpus Christi, Corpus   Texas Height Modernization                           $300,000                                  Hutchison
                               Christi, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Town of Dauphin Island, Dauphin Island, AL     Engineering feasibility study                      $1,500,000  Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Alaska at Fairbanks, Fairbanks,  Extended Continental Shelf Mapping                   $300,000                                  Murkowski
                               AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Guam, Mangilao, GU               Coral Reef Research Institute                        $300,000  Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Hawaii and University of         Remote Infrasonic Monitoring of Natural Hazards    $2,000,000  Childers                        Inouye; Cochran;
                               Mississippi, Honolulu, HI                                                                                                                     Akaka; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI             Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative (HCRI)                $1,000,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI             International Pacific Research Center              $1,500,000                                  Inouye; Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI             Joint Institute of Marine and Atmospheric          $1,250,000                                  Inouye
                                                                              Research (JIMAR) Pelagic Fisheries Research
                                                                              Program (PFRP)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay, HI          Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology (HIMB) Coral    $2,250,000                                  Inouye; Akaka
                                                                              Research
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Maryland Baltimore County        Integrating Climate Change into the Restoration    $3,000,000                                  Mikulski
                               (UMBC); University of Maryland Center for      of the Chesapeake Bay and Watershed
                               Environmental Science (UMCES), Solomons and
                               Baltimore, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Maryland Biotechnology           Metagenomic Analysis of Chesapeake Bay               $100,000  Ruppersberger; Sarbanes; Van    Cardin
                               Institute, Baltimore, MD                                                                                      Hollen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Maryland, College Park, MD       Development of Earth System Information              $150,000  Hoyer; Bartlett;                Cardin
                                                                              Delivery and Assessment                                        Ruppersberger; Sarbanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA       Climate System Research Center                       $495,000  Olver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Miami, Miami, FL                 Joint Center for Hurricane Research                  $500,000  Hastings (FL)                   Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Mississippi, Oxford, MS          National Institute for Undersea Science and        $5,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                                                                              Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Mississippi, Oxford, MS          National Sea Grant Law Center                        $750,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH        AIRMAP at University of New Hampshire                $500,000                                  Gregg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA     Pontchartrain Basin Restoration                      $250,000  Cao                             Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of North Carolina, Wilmington, NC   Aquarius Reef Base Program                           $150,000  McIntyre                        Burr
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK             National Weather Radar Testbed Phased Array        $2,000,000  Cole; Fallin; Boren             Inhofe
                                                                              Radar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Southern Mississippi,            Marine Aquaculture Lab Operations                  $3,700,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               Hattiesburg, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Tennessee Space Institute,       Atmospheric Science Research                       $1,000,000  Davis (TN)                      Alexander
                               Tullahoma, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        University of Toledo, Toledo, OH               Lake Erie Hydrological & Climate Modeling            $100,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Virginia Institute of Marine Science,          Virginia TRAWL Survey                                $300,000  Connolly (VA); Moran (VA);      Webb; Warner
                               Glouster Point, VA                                                                                            Nye; Scott (VA); Wittman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        West Virginia Department of Natural            Natural Stream Design and Restoration              $1,500,000  Mollohan
                               Resources, Charleston, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx, NY       Bronx River and South Bronx Waterfront             $1,000,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-ORF        Yukon River Drainage Fisheries Association,    The Yukon River Drainage Fisheries Association       $100,000  Young (AK)                      Murkowski
                               Anchorage, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-PAC        Great Bay Resource Protection Partnership,     Great Bay Land Acquisition                         $3,000,000  Shea-Porter                     Gregg; Shaheen
                               Portsmouth, NH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-PAC        Thunder Bay, Alpena, MI                        Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary--Phase II    $1,000,000                                  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOC           NOAA-PAC        University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL          Cooperative Institute and Research Center for     $14,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Southeast Weather and Hydrology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       American Detoxification Foundation/UMCP, Salt  Utah Meth Cops Program                               $200,000  Bishop (UT)                     Bennett; Hatch
                               Lake City, UT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Arizona Meth Project, Phoenix, AZ              Arizona Meth Project                                 $200,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       California Deparment of Justice (CADOJ),       San Diego California Methamphetamine Strategy        $250,000  Hunter
                               Sacramento, CA                                 (CALMS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       California Department of Justice, Sacramento,  Meth Enforcement/Interdiction in San Bernardino      $600,000  Lewis (CA)
                               CA                                             County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       California State Department of Justice,        California Methamphetamine Strategy (CALMS)          $500,000  Honda
                               Sacramento, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Cape Girardeau Co. Sherriff's Office, Cape     Missouri Sherriff's Methamphetamine Relief Team    $1,500,000                                  Bond
                               Girardeau, MO                                  (MOSMART)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       City of Bastrop, Bastrop, LA                   Bastrop-Morehouse Parish Meth Initiative             $650,000  Alexander                       Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Clackamas County, Oregon City, OR              Clackamas County Interagency Methamphetamine         $100,000                                  Wyden; Merkley
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Clackamas County, Portland, OR                 Clackamas County Interagency Methamphetamine         $550,000  Schrader; Blumenauer
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Colorado Meth Project, State-wide, CO          Colorado Meth Project                                $250,000                                  Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Contra Costa County, Martinez, CA              Methamphetamine Eradication and Suppression          $200,000  Tauscher
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       County of Butte, City of Oroville, CA          Drug Endangered Children Program                     $400,000                                  Feinstein
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       County of Solano, Fairfield, CA                County of Solano Methamphetamine Initiative          $100,000  Tauscher                        Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Daviess County Sheriff, Owensboro, KY          Second District Methamphetamine Eradication          $300,000  Guthrie
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Elkhart County, Elkhart, IN                    Elkhart County Criminal Intelligence                 $250,000  Souder; Donnelly (IN)
                                                                              Interdiction Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Etowah County Drug Enforcement Unit, Gadsden,  Blount, Dekalb, Etowah, Marshall, Marion,          $1,500,000  Aderholt
                               AL                                             Morgan, Pickens, Walker, Winston Counties, AL
                                                                              Drug Task Forces Anti-Methamphetamine Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Georgia Meth Project, Atlanta, GA              The Georgia Meth Project                             $250,000  Bishop (GA)                     Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Heartland Family Service, Inc., Council        Residential Methamphetamine Treatment in             $400,000  King (IA)                       Harkin; Grassley
                               Bluffs, IA                                     Southwestern Iowa Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Heartland Family Service, Omaha, NE            Methamphetamine and Drug Treatment Program for       $500,000                                  Nelson, Ben
                                                                              Women
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Hillsborough County, Tampa, FL                 Hillsborough County Methamphetamine Enforcement      $250,000  Bilirakis; Putnam               Nelson, Bill
                                                                              and Cleanup
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Idaho Meth Project, Boise, ID                  Idaho Meth Project                                 $1,000,000  Simpson                         Crapo; Risch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Illinois Meth Project, Springfield, IL         Illinois Meth Project                                $100,000  Hare; Schock
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Illinois State University, Normal, IL          Illinois State University Meth Project               $200,000  Johnson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Jackson County Sheriff, Jackson County, MS     Methamphetamine Enforcement and Cleanup              $350,000  Taylor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Jefferson County, Golden, CO                   Methamphetamine Response Collaborative               $300,000  Perlmutter                      Udall, M; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Marion County, Salem, OR                       Kids First Initiative Phase 2                        $740,000  Schrader                        Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Methodist University, Fayetteville, NC         Methamphetamine Educational Training Program         $150,000  Etheridge; Kissell; McIntyre    Burr; Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Mineral Area Drug Task Force, Leadington, MO   Mineral Area Drug Task Force                         $200,000  Emerson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Minot State University, Minot, ND              Rural Methamphetamine Education Project              $500,000  Pomeroy                         Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Mississippi--North Central Narcotics           Mississippi--North Central Narcotics Taskforce       $500,000  Thompson (MS)
                               Taskforce, Port Gibson, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Montana Meth Project, Missoula, MT             Montana Meth Project                                 $500,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Northeast Law Enforcement Administrators       Northeast Law Enforcement Administrators             $500,000  Oberstar
                               Council, Chisholm, MN                          Council Methamphetamine Reduction Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Pierce County Alliance, Tacoma, WA             National Methamphetamine Training and Technical    $1,300,000                                  Murray; Cantwell
                                                                              Assistance Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Pierce County Alliance, Tacoma, WA             Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative        $1,600,000  Reichert; Dicks; Hastings
                                                                                                                                             (WA); Baird; Larsen (WA);
                                                                                                                                             Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Polk County Sheriff, Bartow, FL                Polk County Methamphetamine Prevention Project       $250,000  Putnam
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Rusk County Sheriff, Ladysmith, WI             Methamphetamine Prevention and Enforcement           $300,000  Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Safe Streets Campaign, Tacoma, WA              Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative          $900,000                                  Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Sioux City Police Department, Sioux City, IA   National Meth Training Center                        $800,000  King (IA)                       Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       South Central Drug Task Force, West Plains,    South Central Drug Task Force                        $250,000  Emerson
                               MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team,        South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team               $500,000  DeFazio
                               Coquille, OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Southeast Missouri Drug Task Force, Sikeston,  Southeast Missouri Drug Task Force                   $200,000  Emerson
                               MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       St. Joseph County Prosecutor, South Bend, IN   Methamphetamine and Illegal Firearms                 $100,000  Donnelly (IN)
                                                                              Investigation and Prosecution Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       State of Iowa, Office of Drug Control Policy,  Drug Intercept Squads (DIS)                          $500,000  Boswell                         Harkin; Grassley
                               Des Moines, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, Nashville,  Tennessee Meth Task Force                          $2,000,000  Wamp                            Alexander
                               TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Torrance County Sheriff Department, Estancia,  Methamphetamine Enforcement                          $400,000  Heinrich                        Bingaman; Udall, T
                               NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Twiggs County Sheriff, Jeffersonville, GA      Meth Task Force                                      $140,000  Marshall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Uintah County, Uintah County, UT               Uintah Basin Methamphetamine Project                 $500,000                                  Bennett; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       University of Arkansas Criminal Justice        Arkansas Methamphetamine Education and Training      $575,000  Boozman; Snyder                 Pryor; Lincoln
                               Institute, Little Rock, AR                     Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       University of Missouri St. Louis College of    Methamphetamine Prevention Education                 $250,000  Carnahan
                               Nursing, St. Louis, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Ventura County Sheriff, Ventura, CA            California Multi-jurisdictional Methamphetamine      $350,000  Gallegly
                                                                              (CAL MMET) Investigators
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Virginia State Police, Wytheville, VA          Southwest Virginia Drug Task Force Assistance        $350,000                                  Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       White Earth Tribal Nation, White Earth, MN     COPS Law Enforcement and Meth Education Project      $100,000                                  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Meth       Winchester Police Department, Winchester, KY   Winchester Police Department Law Enforcement          $30,000  Chandler
                                                                              Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Abington Township Police Department,           Technology Upgrades and Enhancements for Police      $195,000  Schwartz
                               Abington, PA                                   Vehicles
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Adams County Department of Emergency           Radio System Upgrade                                 $200,000  Platts                          Specter
                               Services, Gettysburg, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Alabama Department of Corrections (ADOC),      Electronic Training and Security Tools (ETAST)       $250,000  Aderholt
                               Montgomery, AL                                 Phase III
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Alamosa Police Department, Alamosa, CO         Alamosa Public Safety Mobile DATA                    $125,000  Salazar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Allentown Police Department, Allentown, PA     Lehigh and Northampton Counties                      $800,000  Dent                            Specter
                                                                              Interoperability Development Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Alpine County Sheriffs Office, City of         Alpine-Calaveras Regional Interoperable and          $400,000                                  Feinstein
                               Markleeville, CA                               Tactical Communications Microwave Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Anson County Sheriff, Wadesboro, NC            Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool             $500,000  Kissell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ardmore Police Department, Ardmore, AL         Law Enforcement Technology Equipment and              $20,000  Griffith
                                                                              Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Baldwin County Commission, Fairhope, AL        Baldwin County Courthouse Security                   $500,000  Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Baldwin County Sherriff, Milledgeville, GA     Regional Dispatch and Emergency Management           $250,000  Barrow
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Baltimore County Executive Office, Towson, MD  Baltimore County 9-1-1 Center Communications       $1,500,000  Kratovil; Ruppersberger;        Mikulski; Cardin
                                                                              and Equipment Upgrades                                         Cummings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Baltimore County Sheriff, Towson, MD           Local Law Enforcement Enhancement                    $200,000  Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Bartlesville Police Department, Bartlesville,  Bartlesville Police Department Mobile Data           $800,000  Sullivan
                               OK                                             Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Beaver County Sheriff, Beaver, PA              Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $120,000  Altmire
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Beltrami County, Bemidji, MN                   Mobile Data/Computer Aided Dispatch                  $240,000                                  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ben Hill County Sheriff, Fitzgerald, GA        In Car Video Systems                                  $55,000  Marshall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Bismarck Police Department, Bismarck, ND       City of Bismarck and Burleigh County First           $250,000  Pomeroy                         Dorgan; Conrad
                                                                              Responder Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Blacksburg Police Department, Blacksburg, VA   New River Valley Emergency System                    $250,000  Boucher
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Boone County Sheriff's Department,             Boone County Sheriff's Department equipment          $340,000                                  McConnell
                               Burlington, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of Cliffside Park, Cliffside Park, NJ  Replacement of Computer Hardware and Software        $270,000  Rothman (NJ)
                                                                              for Dispatching Radio System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of East Rutherford, East Rutherford,   East Rutherford Police & Courts Facility             $500,000  Rothman (NJ)                    Menendez
                               NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of Lavallette, Lavallette, NJ          Lavallette Police Department--Communications         $185,000  Adler (NJ)
                                                                              Update
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of Leonia, Leonia, NJ                  Lap Top Computers for Patrol Vehicles                 $33,000  Rothman (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of McKees Rocks, McKees Rocks, PA      Surveillance Camera Network Installation             $120,000  Doyle
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of Pompton Lakes, Pompton Lakes, NJ    Pompton Lakes Police and Emergency Services          $240,000  Pascrell                        Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Interoperability Equipment Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Borough of Quakertown, Quakertown, PA          Law Enforcement Technology and Communications        $100,000  Murphy, Patrick
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Bossier Parish Sheriff's Office, Bossier       Bossier Parish Public Safety Interoperable           $200,000                                  Vitter
                               City, LA                                       Communications
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Bourbon County Sheriff, Paris, KY              Bourbon County Law Enforcement Technology             $50,000  Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Brazos County Sheriff, Bryan, TX               Brazos County Law Enforcement Technology             $200,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Briarcliff Manor Police Department,            Briarcliff Manor, NY, Police Department               $40,000  Lowey
                               Briarcliff Manor, NY                           Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Burrillville Police Department, Burrillville,  Emergency Operations Center Technology               $100,000  Kennedy                         Reed; Whitehouse
                               RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Butler County, El Dorado, KS                   Butler County Radio System Project                   $500,000                                  Brownback
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Butler Police Department, Butler, GA           Law Enforcement Equipment                             $75,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Calhoun County Commission, Calhoun County, AL  Northeast Alabama Regional Mobile Data System        $500,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       California Department of Justice, Sacramento,  Mobile Live Scan Fingerprint Devices for LA and      $100,000  Rohrabacher
                               CA                                             Orange Counties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Calloway County Sheriff's Department, Murray,  Calloway County Sheriff's Department equipment       $100,000                                  McConnell
                               KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Calvert County Department of Public Safety,    Calvert Mobile Data Terminals                        $500,000  Hoyer
                               Prince Frederick, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cambria 9th Public Service Providers, Patton,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Shuster
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Camden City Municipal Government, Camden, NJ   Camden Police Department Mobile Communications       $200,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Carlisle Borough, Carlisle, PA                 Public Safety Video Surveillance Project             $200,000  Platts                          Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Carroll County Sheriff, Carrollton, OH         Carroll County Sheriff Equipment Upgrade             $140,000  Space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cayuga County, Auburn, NY                      Interoperable Communications Upgrade                 $300,000  Arcuri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cedar Rapids Joint Communications Agency,      Police Safety Equipment and Communications           $300,000  Loebsack                        Grassley
                               Cedar Rapids, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Center for Technology Commercialization Inc.,  Massachusetts Law Enforcement Technology and         $500,000  McGovern                        Kennedy; Kerry
                               Westborough, MA                                Training Support Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Centre County, Bellefonte, PA                  Emergency Communications Systems                     $500,000  Thompson (PA)                   Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Charles Mix County, Lake Andes, SD             Charles Mix County 911 System Upgrade                $100,000  Herseth Sandlin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Charlevoix Cheboygan Emmet Central Dispatch    Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Stupak
                               Authority, Petoskey, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Chautauqua County, Mayville, NY                Broadband Fiber Initiative                           $100,000                                  Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Chester County Sherriff, Chester, SC           Chester County Communications Tower                  $300,000  Spratt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Chesterfield County Police Department,         Police Officer Communications Radio Project          $930,000  Forbes                          Webb; Warner
                               Chesterfield, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Chickasaw Nation, Ada, OK                      Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool for         $750,000  Cole; Boren
                                                                              the Chickasaw & Choctaw Nations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Christian County Sheriff, Taylorville, IL      Interoperable Communications Upgrades                $250,000  Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City and County of San Francisco, San          San Francisco Gun Location Technology and            $750,000  Pelosi
                               Francisco, CA                                  Policing Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Albertville, Albertville, AL           Public Safety Mobile Data System                   $1,400,000  Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Albuquerque, Public Safety             Comprehensive Information System Project             $400,000  Heinrich                        Bingaman; Udall, T
                               Department, Albuquerque, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Alexandria, Alexandria, VA             Crime Scene Investigations Mobile Technology         $140,000  Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Arlington, Arlington, GA               Wireless IP Technology System                        $100,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Auburn, Auburn, AL                     City of Auburn Mobile Data System                    $100,000  Rogers (AL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Auburn, Auburn, WA                     Valley Cities Public Safety Regional Broadband       $150,000  Smith (WA); Reichert
                                                                              Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Banning, Banning, CA                   Banning Multi-Agency Interoperability                $300,000  Lewis (CA)
                                                                              Capability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Barrackville Police Department,        Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               Barrackville, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Bastrop, Bastrop, TX                   Bastrop Police Department Technology and              $40,000  Doggett
                                                                              Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Bayonne, Bayonne, NJ                   Law Enforcement Technology                           $100,000  Sires                           Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Beech Grove, Beech Grove, IN           Beech Grove Police Department Public Safety          $100,000                                  Lugar
                                                                              Communications Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Bethlehem Police Department,           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               Bethlehem, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Birmingham, Birmingham, AL             Urban Crime Prevention Initiative                    $250,000  Davis (AL); Bachus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Blue Island Police Department, Blue    Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $150,000  Rush
                               Island, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Bogalusa, Bogalusa, LA                 Equipment for Police Dept                            $100,000                                  Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Buffalo, Buffalo, NY                   TraCS Equipment                                      $600,000  Slaughter                       Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Central Falls Police Dept, Central     Cops Technology                                      $100,000  Kennedy
                               Falls, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Chester, Chester, IL                   Public Safety Technology Improvements for the        $100,000  Costello
                                                                              City of Chester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH             800MHz Radios for Cincinnati                         $625,000  Driehaus                        Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Cochran Police Department, Cochran,    Police Department Technology Program                  $70,000  Marshall
                               GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of College Park, College Park, GA         Emergency Operations Center Technology Upgrade       $450,000  Lewis (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Commerce City, Commerce City, CO       Interoperable Communications Equipment               $110,000  Perlmutter                      Udall, M
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Corona, Corona, CA                     Interoperability Upgrades for the City of            $150,000  Calvert
                                                                              Corona Police Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Denver, Denver, CO                     COPLINK                                              $500,000                                  Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Detroit, Detroit, MI                   Detroit Police Northwestern District Wide CB         $350,000  Kilpatrick (MI); Conyers        Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Patrol
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Dodge City Police Department, Dodge    Dodge City Police Department Equipment and           $200,000  Moran (KS)
                               City, KS                                       Technology Upgrade Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Doral, Doral, FL                       City of Doral Public Safety & Surveillance           $750,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario              Nelson, Bill
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Dothan, Dothan, AL                     Public Safety Emergency Communications System        $500,000  Bright                          Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Durango, Durango, CO                   Durango Police Department Interoperability           $300,000  Salazar                         Udall, M; Bennet
                                                                              Completion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of East Point, East Point, GA             East Point Law Enforcement Technology Upgrade        $100,000  Lewis (GA)                      Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Elkhart, Elkhart, IN                   Elkhart Police Department Equipment Acquisition      $250,000  Donnelly (IN)                   Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Eugene, Eugene, OR                     Public Safety Technology Improvements                $150,000  DeFazio
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Farmington, Farmington, NM             Interoperability Radio Communications,               $100,000  Lujan                           Udall, T
                                                                              Farmington, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Fayetteville, Fayetteville, AR         Simulcast System for Public Safety                   $750,000  Boozman                         Pryor; Lincoln
                                                                              Communication
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Fayetteville, Fayetteville, NC         Regional Public Safety Communications                $300,000  Etheridge                       Burr; Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Foley, Foley, AL                       Public Safety Initiative                             $400,000  Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Fort Smith Police Department, Fort     River Valley Mobile Data Network                     $750,000  Boozman                         Pryor; Lincoln
                               Smith, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Gadsden, Gadsden, AL                   Law Enforcement and Forensic Science Technology      $150,000  Aderholt
                                                                              and Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Galesburg, Galesburg, IL               Upgrade 911 Systems to a Next Generation NG-911      $100,000  Hare
                                                                              Digital System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Gardena, Gardena, CA                   Gardena Public Safety Surveillance                   $350,000  Waters
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Gary, Gary, IN                         Law enforcement equipment for the Gary Police         $92,000  Visclosky
                                                                              Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Gilbert Police Department, Gilbert,    City of Gilbert Integrated Radio System               $35,000  Oberstar
                               MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Glen Cove, Glen Cove, NY               Law Enforcement Technology Improvements              $615,000  King (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Glendale, Glendale, CA                 Foothill Regional Forensic DNA Lab                   $500,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Greenville, Greenville, NC             Law Enforcement Technology Improvement Project       $250,000  Butterfield                     Burr; Hagan;
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Greenwood, Greenwood, MS               Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Thompson (MS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hackensack, Hackensack, NJ             The City of Hackensack Police and Emergency          $200,000  Rothman (NJ)                    Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Services Communication Upgrade Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hagerstown, Hagerstown, MD             Hagerstown Police Department Technology and          $900,000  Bartlett                        Mikulski; Cardin
                                                                              Equipment Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hampton, Virginia, Hampton, VA         Emergency Communications System, Hampton, VA         $200,000  Nye; Scott (VA); Wittman        Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Harrisburg, Harrisburg, PA             Digital In Car Video Project                         $100,000                                  Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hartford, Hartford, CT                 High Street Public Safety Complex                  $1,000,000                                  Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hartselle, Hartselle, AL               Wireless Area Network                                $250,000  Aderholt                        Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Henderson, Henderson, NV               Police Technology                                    $600,000                                  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hialeah, Hialeah, FL                   Equipment Upgrades                                   $250,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario; Diaz-
                                                                                                                                             Balart, Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hickory Hills, Hickory Hills, IL       Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $125,000  Lipinski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Highland, Highland, CA                 Highland Police Technology Program                   $500,000  Lewis (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hobart, Hobart, IN                     Law enforcement equipment for the Hobart Police       $90,000  Visclosky
                                                                              Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hokah, Hokah, MN                       Improved Law Enforcement and Emergency                $60,000                                  Klobuchar
                                                                              Communications
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hollywood, Hollywood, FL               Law Enforcement Technology                           $400,000  Wasserman Schultz; Meek (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Homestead, Homestead, FL               Emergency Wireless Law Enforcement Technology        $500,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario              Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Hot Springs Police Department, Hot     Mobile Data Terminals                                $325,000  Ross                            Pryor; Lincoln
                               Springs, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Houston, Houston, TX                   Houston Interoperability Initiative                $1,350,000  Jackson-Lee (TX); Green, Gene;  Cornyn
                                                                                                                                             Culberson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Huntsville, Huntsville, AL             City of Huntsville Public Safety Technology          $750,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Upgrades (Equipment)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN         Automated Fingerprint Identification System and      $300,000  Carson (IN)
                                                                              IMPD Technology Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN         Broadband Wireless Upgrade to IMPD Fleet              $50,000  Carson (IN)                     Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Jackson, Jackson, MS                   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Thompson (MS)                   Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Jacksonville Beach, Jacksonville, FL   Interoperability P-25 Compliant Radio System         $250,000  Crenshaw                        Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Kannapolis, Kannapolis, NC             Kannapolis Regional Radio Upgrade                    $575,000  Coble                           Burr; Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Kirkland, Kirkland, WA                 Emergency Services Equipment                         $300,000  Inslee                          Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Lacey, Lacey, WA                       Records Management System                            $200,000  Baird; Smith (WA)               Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Lockhart, Lockhart, TX                 Lockhart Police Department Technology                $125,000  Doggett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Long Beach, Long Beach, CA             Forensic Investigation Equipment                     $100,000  Richardson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Madison, Madison, WI                   Madison Law Enforcement Technology Upgrades          $700,000                                  Kohl
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Maitland, Maitland, FL                 Law Enforcement Technology Upgrades                  $400,000  Mica                            Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Maryville, Maryville, TN               Blount County Communications System                  $750,000  Duncan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Mascoutah, Mascoutah, IL               Fiber Optic Connection Upgrade for the City of       $650,000  Costello
                                                                              Mascoutah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Medford, Medford, OR                   Jackson County Consolidated 9-1-1 Dispatch           $710,000  Walden                          Wyden; Merkley
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Middletown Police Department,          Enhanced Communications and Vehicular Video           $65,000  Hinchey
                               Middletown, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, MN           Public Safety Technology                             $400,000  Ellison                         Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Missoula, Missoula, MT                 Missoula Police Headquarters Facility                $750,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Modesto, Modesto, CA                   Stanislaus County and City of Modesto, CA, for       $300,000  Cardoza                         Feinstein
                                                                              law enforcement communications equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Monterey Park, Monterey Park, CA       Police Communications Upgrade                        $250,000  Schiff; Chu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Montgomery, Montgomery, AL             City of Montgomery and Montgomery County             $500,000  Bright; Rogers (AL)             Shelby
                                                                              Interoperable Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Mountain Village, Mountain Village,    Mountain Village Public Safety Communications        $500,000  Salazar                         Udall, M
                               CO                                             System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of New Haven, New Haven, CT               Northeast Regional Law Enforcement Firing Range      $225,000                                  Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Newark, Newark, CA                     Public Safety Interoperability Program               $200,000  Stark
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Newark, Newark, NJ                     Emergency Operations Center Interoperability         $500,000  Payne                           Lautenberg
                                                                              Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Newport, Newport, RI                   National Incident Management System                  $200,000  Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Norfolk, Norfolk, VA                   Police Tactical And Surveillance Equipment And       $100,000  Nye; Scott (VA)
                                                                              Other Technologies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Norman, Norman, OK                     Norman Public Safety Networking Initiative           $250,000  Cole                            Inhofe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Oakland, Oakland, CA                   Automatic Vehicle Locating (AVL) Systems             $250,000  Lee (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Oakland, Oakland, CA                   Oakland Police Compstat                            $1,325,000                                  Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Orange Township, Orange, NJ            Public Safety Information Technology                 $450,000  Payne                           Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Restoration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Orlando, Orlando, FL                   Innovative Response to Improve Safety                $200,000  Brown, Corrine                  Nelson, Bill
                                                                              (I.R.I.S.)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Ottumwa, Ottumwa, IA                   Crime Reduction Through Utilization of Video         $375,000  Loebsack                        Grassley
                                                                              Surveillance Systems and In Car Computer
                                                                              Systems
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Oxnard, Oxnard, CA                     City of Oxnard Comprehensive Critical Assets         $300,000  Capps
                                                                              Remote Surveillance Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Ozark, Ozark, AL                       Ozark Police Department Technology Improvements      $140,000  Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Paden City Police Department, Paden    Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               City, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Palm Bay, Palm Bay, FL                 Palm Bay Mobile Command Unit Communications          $600,000  Posey                           Nelson, Bill
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Parsons, Parsons, WV                   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Peekskill, Peekskill, NY               The City of Peekskill WIFI System                    $300,000                                  Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Philippi Police Department, Philippi,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ                   City of Phoenix COPLINK                              $500,000  Pastor (AZ); Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ                   City of Phoenix Enhanced Mobile Data Security        $300,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Piedmont Police Department, Piedmont,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA             Neighborhood Camera Security System                  $500,000  Doyle                           Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Poughkeepsie Police Department,        CCTV and Interoperability Upgrades and               $100,000  Hinchey
                               Poughkeepsie, NY                               Enhancement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Racine, Racine, WI                     City of Racine License Plate Recognition             $100,000                                  Kohl
                                                                              Cameras
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Raleigh, Raleigh, NC                   City of Raleigh: Rapid Fingerprint                   $300,000  Price (NC); Etheridge; Miller   Hagan
                                                                              Identification                                                 (NC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Redlands, Redlands, CA                 Redlands Police Information Technology               $350,000  Lewis (CA)
                                                                              Infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Redondo Beach, Redondo Beach, CA       Redondo Beach Emergency Operations Center            $200,000  Harman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Rialto Police Department, Rialto, CA   Rialto Police Department Surveillance Cameras        $300,000  Baca
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Riverside Public Utilities,            City of Riverside Public Utilities                 $1,000,000  Calvert
                               Riverside, CA                                  Infrastructure Video Security
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Rock Island, Rock Island, IL           Technology Upgrades                                  $150,000                                  Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Rockford, Rockford, IL                 Rockford Crimefighting Technology Initiative         $250,000  Manzullo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Rockville, Rockville, MD               Police Technology Upgrade Project                    $100,000  Van Hollen                      Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Saginaw Police Department, Saginaw,    Digital Surveillance Cameras                         $300,000  Kildee
                               MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of San Antonio (San Antonio Police        City of San Antonio, TX Police Technology          $1,100,000  Smith (TX); Rodriguez;
                               Department), San Antonio, TX                   Improvements                                                   Gonzalez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of San Diego, San Diego, CA               San Diego Crime Lab Technology                       $200,000  Davis (CA)                      Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of San Jose, San Jose, CA                 Mobile Data Computer Replacement                     $710,000  Honda; Lofgren, Zoe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Seattle, Seattle, WA                   Seattle Police Forensics and Digital Imaging         $300,000  McDermott                       Murray
                                                                              Infrastructure Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Stafford, Stafford, TX                 Stafford Emergency Operations Center Emergency       $100,000  Green, Al
                                                                              Management Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Stamping Ground, Stamping Ground, KY   Law Enforcement Technology                            $30,000  Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Suffolk, Suffolk, VA                   Suffolk Police Department Technology                  $70,000  Forbes
                                                                              Enhancement Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Summit, Summit, NJ                     Regional Police and Emergency Management           $1,000,000  Lance                           Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Interoperable Communication Network and
                                                                              Facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Sumter Police Department, Sumter, SC   Sumter--Police Technology                            $100,000  Spratt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Sunbury, Sunbury, PA                   Video Surveillance Project and Other IT Issues       $200,000  Carney
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Sunny Isles Beach, Sunny Isles Beach,  Law Enforcement and Communications Equipment         $200,000  Wasserman Schultz
                               FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Surprise, Surprise, AZ                 Police Officer Technology Upgrade                    $200,000  Franks (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Tamarac, Tamarac, FL                   Interoperable Communications System                  $300,000  Wexler; Hastings (FL);          Nelson, Bill
                                                                                                                                             Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Tempe, Tempe, AZ                       Public Safety Communications/Interoperability        $300,000  Mitchell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Torrington, Torrington, CT             Northwest Regional Public Safety Communications      $850,000  Larson (CT)                     Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Trenton, Trenton, NJ                   Gunshot Location System (GLS) and Radio              $300,000  Smith (NJ)                      Lautenberg;
                                                                              Communication Upgrade                                                                          Menendez;
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Tucson, Tucson, AZ                     Tucson Finger Imaging Upgrade System                 $150,000  Giffords
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Union City, Union City, NJ             Law Enforcement Technology                           $350,000  Sires
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Union City, Union City, NJ             Union City Technology Project                        $300,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Waupun Police Department, Waupun, WI   P25 Compliance/Communication Upgrade                  $30,000  Petri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of West Columbia, West Columbia, SC       West Columbia Law Enforcement Communications         $350,000  Wilson (SC)                     Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of West Haven, West Haven, CT             West Haven Two-Way Public Safety Radio System        $300,000  DeLauro
                                                                              Replacement Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Westland, Westland, MI                 Westland Public Safety Improvements                  $200,000                                  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Winston-Salem, Winston-Salem, NC       City of Winston-Salem and Forsyth County Joint     $1,000,000                                  Hagan
                                                                              Firearms Training Facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of Yakima, Yakima, WA                     Yakima County Integrated Public Safety System        $500,000  Hastings (WA)                   Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       City of York Police Department, York, SC       City of York Police Department Technology and        $100,000  Spratt
                                                                              Records Management Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Clarion County Commissioners, Clarion, PA      North West Central Regional Interoperability         $500,000  Thompson (PA)                   Specter; Casey
                                                                              Strategic Telecommunication Plan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Clark County, Las Vegas, NV                    Justice Information Sharing System                   $300,000  Berkley                         Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Clay County Sheriff, Liberty, MO               Clay and Platte Counties Communications              $660,000  Graves
                                                                              Interoperability Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cleburne Police Department, Cleburne, TX       City of Cleburne Communication Technology            $150,000  Edwards (TX)
                                                                              Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cleveland Department of Public Safety,         800 MHz APCO Project 25 Digital Trunked Radio        $300,000  Fudge; Kucinich                 Voinovich; Brown
                               Cleveland, OH                                  System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cobb County Government, Marietta, GA           Regional Communications and Interoperability       $1,000,000  Gingrey (GA); Scott (GA)        Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Collier County, Naples, FL                     Emergency Services Technology, Collier County,       $800,000  Mack; Diaz-Balart, Mario        Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              Florida                                                                                        Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Coosa County Commission, Coosa County, AL      Computer Aided Dispatch                              $150,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Bergen, Hackensack, NJ               County-Wide Public Safety Radio Communication        $900,000  Rothman (NJ)                    Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Bucks, Doylestown, PA                Law Enforcement Data-Sharing Infrastructure          $300,000  Murphy, Patrick                 Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Calaveras, San Andreas, CA           Law Enforcement Radio and Data Communications      $1,250,000  Lungren, Dan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Camden, Camden, NJ                   County-Wide Interoperability System                  $500,000                                  Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Franklin, Rocky Mount, VA            Microwave ring between Franklin, Patrick and         $200,000  Perriello
                                                                              Henry Counties and the City of Martinsville
                                                                              for Public Safety/E911 Voice and Data
                                                                              Interoperability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Fresno, Fresno, CA                   Regional Data Interoperability                       $300,000  Costa                           Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Kings, Hanford, CA                   Interoperable Emergency Communications System        $300,000  Costa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Onondaga, Syracuse, NY               Interoperable Emergency Communications               $300,000  Maffei                          Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Orangeburg, Orangeburg, SC           Law Enforcement Automated Data Repository            $500,000  Wilson (SC)                     Graham
                                                                              (LEADR)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       County of Volusia, DeLand, FL                  Evidence Photo Management System                     $150,000  Mica; Brown, Corrine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cullman County Commission, Cullman, AL         Law Enforcement Data Communication Sharing           $750,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Information
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Cumberland County Government, Carlisle, PA     Emergency Communications Infrastructure              $200,000  Platts                          Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Dallas County Sheriff's Department, Dallas,    Dallas County Intake/Release Project                 $100,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice
                               TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Deep East Texas Council of Governments,        Collaborative Fingerprint & Palmprint              $1,000,000  Barton (TX)
                               Jasper, TX                                     Identification
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Delaware Capitol Police, Dover, DE             Carvel State Building Video Surveillance              $75,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Delaware State Police, Dover, DE               In-Car Camera System for Delaware State Police     $1,500,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                                                                              Patrol Cars
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Delaware State Police, Dover, DE               Survival Equipment for Delaware State Police         $125,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Dilley PD, Pearsall PD, Floresville PD,        Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Cuellar
                               Atascosa County, Dilley, Pearsall,
                               Jourdanton, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Dobbs Ferry Police Department, Dobbs Ferry,    Equipment for Vehicles                                $50,000  Lowey
                               NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Downriver Community Conference, Southgate, MI  Coordinated Emergency Dispatch and Mutual Aid        $650,000  Dingell                         Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              System Preparedness IV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Downriver Community Conference, Southgate, MI  Downriver Mutual Aid System Preparedness IV          $200,000  Dingell                         Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       East Bay Regional Communications System        East Bay Regional Communications System            $1,050,000  McNerney; Tauscher; Stark       Feinstein; Boxer
                               Authority, Dublin, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Eastern Riverside County Interoperable         Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $500,000  Bono Mack
                               Communications Authority, Indio, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       E-Com Dispatch Center, Homewood, IL            E-Com Power Supply/Generator                         $100,000  Jackson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       El Paso County Sheriff, El Paso, TX            El Paso County Sheriff's Office-Border Crime         $250,000  Rodriguez
                                                                              Enhancements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       El Paso Police Department, El Paso, TX         Public Safety Radio Voice/Data Systems               $250,000  Reyes
                                                                              Interoperability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Elgin Police Department, Elgin, IL             Elgin Police Car Video Recording Replacement         $460,000  Foster
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Escambia County, Pensacola, FL                 Escambia Emergency Radio Infrastructure            $1,000,000  Miller (FL)
                                                                              Replacement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Essex County Office of Emergency Management,   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment           $1,000,000  Frelinghuysen
                               Newark, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Etowah County Commission, Gadsden, AL          Interoperable Communications & Centralized         $1,000,000  Aderholt
                                                                              Dispatch System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Fairview Police Department, Fairview, WV       Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Fayette County Commissioners, Uniontown, PA    Fayette County Public Safety Equipment Upgrade     $1,000,000  Murtha                          Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Fleming County Fiscal Court, Flemingsburg, KY  Law Enforcement Equipment Project, Fleming            $48,000  Davis (KY)
                                                                              County, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Florida Department of Law Enforcement,         Florida Silver Alert Program                         $100,000  Bilirakis; Young (FL)
                               Tallahassee, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ford County Government, Dodge City, KS         Ford County Jail Equipment                           $200,000                                  Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Fort Belknap Indian Community, Harlem, MT      Fort Belknap Corrections Division                  $1,000,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Fort Mill Police Department, Fort Mill, SC     Fort Mill Police Department Technology               $300,000  Spratt
                                                                              Implementation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Franklin County Emergency Services Alliance,   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Shuster
                               Chambersburg, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Garrard County Fiscal Court, Lancaster, KY     Garrard County Law Enforcement Technology            $145,000  Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Glencoe Department of Public Safety, Glencoe,  Atmospheric Detection Equipment For the              $675,000  Roskam; Bean
                               IL                                             Northern Illinois Police Alarm System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Gonzales Sheriff's Office, Gonzales, TX        Technology and Equipment                              $80,000  Doggett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Grant Town Police Department, Grant Town, WV   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Grayson County Sheriff's Department,           Grayson County Sheriff's Department Equipment        $160,000                                  McConnell
                               Leitchfield, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Greene County, Missouri, Springfield, MO       Equipment for Emergency Operations Center            $350,000  Blunt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Grimes County Sheriff, Anderson, TX            Grimes County Law Enforcement Technology             $100,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Harford County, Bel Air, MD                    Harford County Public Safety Communications          $750,000  Kratovil                        Mikulski
                                                                              Technology Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Harrisville Police Department, Harrisville,    Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hastings Police Department, Hastings on        Hastings, NY, Police Department License Plate         $17,000  Lowey
                               Hudson, NY                                     Reader
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Haverhill Police Department, Haverhill, MA     Haverhill Police Radio Project                       $150,000  Tsongas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hawaii Criminal Justice Data Center, Hilo, HI  Hawaii Integrated Justice Information System       $2,000,000  Hirono                          Inouye
                                                                              (HIJIS) for Hilo and Statewide
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hays County Sheriff Department, San Marcos,    Hays County Police Equipment and Technology           $40,000  Doggett
                               TX                                             Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hearne Police Department, Hearne, TX           City of Hearne Law Enforcement Technology            $100,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Helena Regional Airport, Helena, MT            Rocky Mountain Emergency Service Training          $1,000,000                                  Baucus
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Henderson County Sheriff's Department,         Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool             $300,000  Shuler
                               Hendersonville, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Henry County Sheriff, New Castle, KY           Law Enforcement Equipment Upgrades, Henry             $82,000  Davis (KY)
                                                                              County, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hinds County Sherriff's Office, Jackson, MS    Critical Justice Systems Repairs and Updates         $500,000                                  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Hornell Police Department, Hornell, NY         Hornell Police Intelligence Equipment                $197,000  Massa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Huntington Police Department and Cabell Co.    Joint Technology Initiative and Digital              $665,000  Rahall
                               Sheriff, Huntington, WV                        Communication
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Illinois State Police, Springfield, IL         Illinois Statewide Gang Intelligence Database        $500,000  Halvorson                       Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Illinois State Police, Springfield, IL         Operation Cyber Shield                               $400,000                                  Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Indiana County Commissioners, Indiana, PA      Indiana County Public Safety Radio                   $650,000  Murtha                          Specter
                                                                              Communications Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Indianapolis Housing Agency, Indianapolis, IN  IP Video Technology In Federally Assisted            $100,000  Carson (IN)
                                                                              Housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ingham County, Mason, MI                       IP-Based 911 Phone System                            $100,000                                  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Inyo County, Independence, CA                  Emergency Operations Center                          $240,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Itasca County, Grand Rapids, MN                Itasca County 9-11 Radio System                      $500,000  Oberstar                        Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jackson Township Police Department, North      Jackson Township, Mahoning County Police             $100,000  Wilson (OH)
                               Jackson, OH                                    Facility Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, Jacksonville,   Atmospheric Detection Equipment                      $750,000  Crenshaw; Brown, Corrine
                               FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jasper County Commission, Carthage, MO         Cornerstone Regional Justice Information System      $250,000  Blunt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jasper County Sheriff, Monticello, GA          Lap Top Computers for Patrol Division                 $62,000  Marshall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jefferson City Police Department, Jefferson    Central Missouri Regional Justice Information      $1,000,000  Skelton
                               City, MO                                       System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jefferson County Board of Commissioners,       Jefferson County Emergency Dispatch System           $100,000  Barrow
                               Louisville, GA                                 Upgrade and Enhancement Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Jenkintown Borough Police Department,          Equipment Upgrades, Jenkintown                        $40,000  Schwartz
                               Jenkintown, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Kanawha County Prosecuting Attorney,           Kanawha Prosecutors Case Management                   $85,000  Capito
                               Charleston, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Kankakee County Sheriff, Kankakee, IL          Technological Improvements for the Kankakee          $325,000  Halvorson
                                                                              County Sheriff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       La Vernia, Poth, and Stockdale PD, La Vernia,  La Vernia, Poth, and Stockdale PD equipment          $100,000  Cuellar
                               Poth, Stockdale, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lafourche Parish Sheriff, Thibodaux, LA        In-Car Cameras                                       $200,000  Melancon                        Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lake County Sheriff's Department, Crown        Law Enforcement Equipment                            $500,000  Visclosky
                               Point, IN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lake County, Painesville, OH                   Lake County Public Safety Radio System             $1,000,000  LaTourette                      Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lake County, Tavares, FL                       Lake County Law Enforcement Technology               $800,000  Brown-Waite, Ginny              Nelson, Bill;
                                                                                                                                                                             Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Larchmont Police Department, Larchmont, NY     Larchmont, NY, Police Department Communications      $100,000  Lowey
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lawrence County Sheriff, Moulton, AL           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $40,000  Griffith
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lawrence County Sheriff, New Castle, PA        Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $120,000  Altmire
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lawrence County Sherriff and 911 Center,       Lawrence County Interoperable Radio/MARCS            $300,000  Wilson (OH)
                               Ironton, OH                                    Communications Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lee County, Jonesville, VA                     Law Enforcement Technology Grant for Lee County      $265,000  Boucher
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lehigh County, Allentown, PA                   Lehigh Valley Regional Crime Center (LVRCC)          $500,000                                  Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Leon County Sheriff, Tallahassee, FL           Visual Intelligence Technology                       $300,000  Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Leon County, Tallahassee, FL                   Joint Emergency Communications Center                $200,000  Boyd                            Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Liberal Police Department, Liberal, KS         City of Liberal Equipment Upgrade Project            $200,000  Moran (KS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Linn County Sheriff, Marion, IA                Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $145,000  Loebsack                        Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lorain County Sheriff, Elyria, OH              Lorain County Sheriffs Office Law Enforcement        $245,000  Sutton
                                                                              Digital Radio Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Louisville Metropolitan Police Department,     Mobile Data Computers                                $300,000  Yarmuth
                               Louisville, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lower Providence Township, Eagleville, PA      Police Department Technology Improvements            $200,000  Sestak                          Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Luna County Sheriff Department, Columbus, NM   Project Southern Command                             $250,000  Teague                          Udall, T
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lycoming County Commissioners, Williamsport,   Lycoming County Emergency Operations Center          $250,000  Thompson (PA)                   Specter; Casey
                               PA                                             Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Lynwood, Thornton, and East Hazel Crest ETSB,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $350,000  Jackson (IL)
                               Lynwood, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Macomb County Emergency Management &           Macomb County Centralized Dispatch                   $500,000  Levin                           Levin; Stabenow
                               Communications, Mount Clemens, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Madison County, Wampsville, NY                 Madison County Interoperable Communications          $800,000  McHugh                          Schumer
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Maine Warden Service, Augusta, ME              Maine Search and Rescue Enhancement Project          $200,000  Michaud
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Manchester Police Department, Manchester, NH   Portable Radios, Tactical Gear and other             $315,000  Shea-Porter
                                                                              equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Marion County, Ocala, FL                       Marion County Law Enforcement Technology             $200,000  Brown-Waite, Ginny              Nelson, Bill;
                                                                                                                                                                             Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Marshall County Sheriff's Office, Benton, KY   Law Enforcement Equipment Upgrades                   $250,000                                  Bunning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Marshall University, Huntington, WV            Computer Forensics Initiative                        $855,000                                  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Marshall University, Huntington, WV            Forensic Science Center DNA Laboratory             $4,575,000                                  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Maryland State Police, Pikesville, MD          Maryland State Police First Responder Radio        $1,000,000  Kratovil                        Cardin
                                                                              Interoperability Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Massachusetts Criminal History Systems,        Massachusetts Criminal History Systems Board         $100,000  Markey (MA)
                               Boston, MA                                     Back-up Data Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Massachusetts District Attorneys Association   MDAA Forensic Audio/Video Processing and             $100,000                                  Kennedy; Kerry
                               (MDAA), Barnstable, Boston, Brockton,          Analysis Systems
                               Canton, New Bedford, Northampton,
                               Pittsfield, Salem, Springfield, Woburn, and
                               Worcester, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       McGregor Police Department, McGregor, TX       City of McGregor Law Enforcement Technology          $100,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Medina County Sheriff, Medina, OH              Medina County Community Safety Initiative             $27,000  Boccieri
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Medina County Sheriffs Office, Hondo, TX       Medina Mobile Data Systems                           $250,000  Rodriguez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Mendocino County, Ukiah, CA                    Public Safety Microwave System Phase II:             $250,000  Thompson (CA)                   Boxer
                                                                              Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Miami-Dade County Public Schools, Miami, FL    Technological Equipment Upgrade For Miami-Dade       $600,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln; Meek      Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Schools Police Department                                      (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Middlesex Sheriff, Medford, MA                 Middlesex House of Corrections Safety Project        $800,000  Markey (MA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Miller County Sheriff, Texarkana, AR           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Ross
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Milwaukee Police Department, Milwaukee, WI     Milwaukee Police Department Technology               $550,000                                  Kohl
                                                                              Solutions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Missoula County, Missoula, MT                  Missoula Public Safety Operations & Training         $400,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Monroe Police Department, Monroe, NC           Monroe Police Department's Radio                     $300,000  Kissell                         Burr; Hagan
                                                                              Interoperability Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Montgomery County Department of Police,        Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Initiative            $200,000                                  Cardin
                               Rockville, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Montgomery Township, Montgomery, PA            Technology Upgrade with In-Car Video Cameras          $75,000  Schwartz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Morgan County Commission, Decatur, AL          Mobile Data Terminal Update                          $160,000  Aderholt; Griffith
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Aibonito, Aibonito, PR         Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Catano, Catano, PR             Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Naguabo, Naguabo, PR           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Patillas, Patillas, PR         Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Rio Grande, Rio Grande, PR     Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Municipality of Vieques, Vieques, PR           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $50,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Nassau County Police Department, Mineola, NY   Enhance Shot Spotter System                          $150,000  McCarthy (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Nassau University Medical Center, East         Sexual Assault Response Team                         $200,000  McCarthy (NY)                   Gillibrand
                               Meadow, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       NC State Bureau of Investigation, Raleigh, NC  NC SBI Firearms and Ballistics Analysis              $300,000  Price (NC)                      Hagan
                                                                              Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       New Bedford Police Department, New Bedford,    Gunshot Location System                              $950,000  Frank (MA)                      Kennedy; Kerry
                               MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       New Rochelle Police Department, New Rochelle,  New Rochelle, NY, Police Department Equipment        $340,000  Lowey
                               NY                                             and Training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), New   Brownsville Houses and Tilden Houses--CCTV           $400,000                                  Schumer
                               York, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       New York State Police, Kingston, NY            New York State Police Scuba                          $135,000  Hinchey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Newport News Police Department, Newport News,  Newport News Law Enforcement Technology              $200,000  Wittman; Scott (VA)
                               VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       North Las Vegas Police Department, North Las   Tactical SWAT Vehicle                                $200,000                                  Reid
                               Vegas, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       North Worcester County Drug Task Force,        North Worcester County Drug Task Force               $400,000  Olver                           Kennedy; Kerry
                               Gardner, MA                                    Interoperable Credentialing, Crime Scene &
                                                                              Access Control Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Northern Berks Regional Police Department,     Northern Berks Regional Police Department            $175,000  Holden
                               Reading, PA                                    Infrastructure, Technology and Communications
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Nye County, Pahrump, NV                        Pahrump Government Building Security                 $175,000                                  Reid
                                                                              Improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oakland County Sheriff's Office, Pontiac, MI   Oakland County Sheriff's Department Biometric      $1,025,000  Rogers (MI); Peters; Levin      Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Identification Enhancement Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Office of the Sheriff, Winnebago County,       Communications Equipment for Winnebago County        $250,000  Manzullo
                               Rockford, IL                                   Sheriff's Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and     Enhancement of Ohio AFIS System                      $455,000  Kilroy; Sutton; Kucinich; Ryan  Brown
                               Investigation, London, OH                                                                                     (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oklahoma Department of Public Safety,          Oklahoma Law Enforcement Telecommunications          $700,000                                  Inhofe
                               Oklahoma City, OK                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oklahoma Department of Public Safety,          Statewide Public Safety Communications System        $900,000  Fallin; Boren                   Inhofe
                               Oklahoma City, OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oldham County Police Department, LaGrange, KY  Oldham County Mobile Data Terminal Project, KY        $57,000  Davis (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oneida County, Rhinelander, WI                 Oneida County Radio System Upgrades                  $450,000                                  Kohl
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ontario County Police Department,              Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Massa
                               Canandaigua, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Orange County Sheriff, Chelsea, VT             Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $200,000  Welch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oregon State Police, Salem, OR                 Oregon State Police Mobile Data Platform             $500,000                                  Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Oswego County, Oswego, NY                      Central New York Interoperable Communications        $200,000  McHugh                          Gillibrand
                                                                              Consortium
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ottawa County Emergency Management Agency,     Ottawa County Public Safety Infrastructure           $200,000  Kaptur
                               Port Clinton, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pendleton County Sheriff, Falmouth, KY         Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $12,000  Davis (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pennsboro Police Department, Pennsboro, WV     Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Petersburg Police Department, Petersburg, WV   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Philadelphia Police Department, Philadelphia,  Gunshot Location System                              $500,000  Brady (PA)                      Casey
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Philander Smith College, Little Rock, AR       Technology/Security Infrastructure Upgrade           $750,000                                  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pierce County Sheriff Department, Tacoma, WA   Region 43, Pierce County Metropolitan Public         $500,000  Reichert
                                                                              Safety Communications Interoperable First
                                                                              Responder Emergency Communication System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pima County Sheriff's Department, Tucson, AZ   PCWIN Countywide Public Safety Interoperable         $200,000  Giffords
                                                                              Communications System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pinellas County Sheriff, Largo, FL             Joint Use Firing Range                               $250,000  Young (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Pocahontas County Sheriff, Pocahontas, IA      Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool             $200,000  Latham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Police Department in the Borough of Etna,      Security Cameras and Police Equipment                $100,000  Doyle
                               Pittsburgh, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD     Analytical Crime Tracking                            $200,000                                  Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD     Prince George's County Interoperable Radio           $600,000  Van Hollen; Edwards (MD)
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Randolph County Sheriff, Pocahontas, AR        Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $140,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Ridgefield Park Village, Ridgefield Park, NJ   Digital Mobile Video Camera Conversion                $85,000  Rothman (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Rio Grande Council of Governments, El Paso,    Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool             $250,000  Rodriguez
                               TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Riverside County Sheriff, Riverside, CA        Night Vision Binoculars                              $700,000  Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Riverside County Sheriff's Department,         Digital Management System                            $450,000  Lewis (CA)
                               Riverside, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Rochester Police Department, Rochester, NH     Law Enforcement Technology                           $285,000  Shea-Porter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Rockdale County Sheriff's Office, Conyers, GA  Law Enforcement Mobile Data Network                  $150,000  Johnson (GA)                    Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Rockland County Office of Fire & Emergency     Rockland County Public Safety Interoperable          $250,000  Lowey; Hall (NY)
                               Services, Pomona, NY                           Communications Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Rocky Mount Police Department, Rocky Mount,    Gun Detection Technology System                      $350,000  Butterfield; Etheridge          Burr; Hagan
                               NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Roland Police Department, Roland, OK           Police Department Equipment                          $180,000  Boren
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       San Bernardino County Sheriff, San             San Bernardino County Scientific Investigations      $500,000  Lewis (CA); Baca
                               Bernardino, CA                                 Division
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       San Diego County, San Diego, CA                Regional Communications System (RCS) Upgrade       $1,200,000  Bilbray; Davis (CA); Filner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       San Francisco Department of Emergency          Bay Area Regional Interoperable Communications       $750,000  Pelosi
                               Management, San Francisco, CA                  System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       San Mateo County Sheriff's Office, Redwood     Mobile Emergency Command Center                      $300,000  Eshoo; Speier
                               City, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       San Pablo Police Department, San Pablo, CA     Gunshot Location System                              $360,000  Miller, George
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sandy City, Sandy City, UT                     Sandy City Police Department Technology              $500,000  Matheson                        Bennett; Hatch
                                                                              Improvement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sangamon County Sheriff's Office,              Sangamon County Sheriff Technology Upgrades          $660,000  Schock
                               Springfield, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Santa Clara County, San Jose, CA               Santa Clara County Criminal Justice Information    $1,000,000  Honda; Lofgren, Zoe
                                                                              Control Law & Justice Systems Plan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Schuyler County Sheriff's Office, Rushville,   Schuyler County Sheriff Technology Upgrades           $50,000  Schock
                               IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Shelby County Sheriff, Columbiana, AL          P25 Wide Area Radio Network                          $500,000  Bachus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Shelby Township Police Department, Shelby      Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $200,000  Miller (MI)
                               Township, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Shinnston Police Department, Shinnston, WV     Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sistersville Police Department, Sistersville,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Smyth County, Marion, VA                       Local Law Enforcement Technology for Smyth           $235,000  Boucher
                                                                              County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Snohomish County Regional Drug Task Force,     Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $70,000  Larsen (WA)
                               Everett, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Somerset County Office of Emergency            Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment           $1,000,000  Frelinghuysen
                               Management, Somerville, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Somerset County, Somerset, PA                  Confluence Cellular Communication Tower Project      $100,000  Shuster                         Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Somersworth Police Department, Somersworth,    Portable Police Radios                                $22,000  Shea-Porter
                               NH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       South Russell Police Department, South         Transition to 800MHz Digital Communication            $35,000  LaTourette
                               Russell, OH                                    Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       South Windsor Police Dept, South Windsor, CT   Upgrades to Communications System                    $350,000  Larson (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       SouthCom Dispatch, Matteson, IL                SouthCom Technological Upgrades                      $200,000  Jackson (IL)                    Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Southeast Kansas Regional Law Enforcement      Southeast Kansas Regional Collaborative              $500,000                                  Brownback; Roberts
                               Group, Oswego, KS                              Fingerprint and Palmprint Identification
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Southeastern Oklahoma University, Durant, OK   Emergency Response System                            $270,000  Boren; Cole
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Spencer Police Department, Spencer, WV         Spencer PD Computer System                            $40,000  Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Springfield Police Department, Springfield,    Springfield Police Department Technology             $150,000  Schock
                               IL                                             Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Francois County, Park Hills, MO            Visual Intelligence Tool for Mineral Area            $697,000  Emerson
                                                                              Missouri Law Enforcement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Johns County, St. Augustine, FL            St. Johns County Emergency Interoperability          $250,000  Mica                            Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Lawrence County District Attorney,         St. Lawrence County Drug Investigation               $200,000  McHugh
                               Canton, NY                                     Equipment Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Louis County Sheriff, Duluth, MN           Regional Interoperability Data System Project        $500,000  Oberstar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Louis County Sheriff's Office, Duluth, MN  Regional Interoperability Mobile Data System         $300,000                                  Klobuchar
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department, St.  In-Car Video System (ICVS) program                   $200,000  Carnahan
                               Louis, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       St. Mary, Leonardtown, MD                      In-Car Video Technology                              $500,000  Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Stafford County, Stafford, VA                  Stafford County Law Enforcement Technology           $300,000  Wittman                         Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Stark County Sheriff, Canton, OH               Visual Intelligence Update for Law Enforcement       $400,000  Boccieri
                                                                              and Governmental Agencies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       State of Connecticut Department of Public      In-Car Camera Technology Upgrade                     $175,000  Larson (CT); Courtney; Himes;   Dodd; Lieberman
                               Safety, Middletown, CT                                                                                        Murphy (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       State of Delaware Capitol Police, Dover, DE    New Castle County Courthouse Capitol Police          $130,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                                                                              Command Center and Lobby Surveillance Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Stearns County, St Cloud, MN                   Law Enforcement Center Phase II                      $200,000                                  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sterling Heights Police Department, Sterling   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Miller (MI)
                               Heights, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Stillwater County Government, Columbus, MT     Combined Law Enforcement Crisis Response Team        $200,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Summit County Sheriff, Akron, OH               Law Enforcement Tactical Safety Vehicle, Summit      $150,000  Sutton
                                                                              County Sheriff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sumter County Sheriff, Sumter, SC              Visual Intelligence Technology                     $1,000,000  Brown (SC); Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Sussex County Office of Emergency Management,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment           $1,000,000  Frelinghuysen
                               Newton, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Tamaqua Borough Police Department, Tamaqua,    Tamaqua Police Department Technology and             $200,000  Holden
                               PA                                             Security Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Taney County Commission, Forsyth, MO           White River Area Emergency Project                   $400,000  Blunt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Tazewell County Sheriff's Office, Pekin, IL    Interoperable Law Enforcement Communications         $140,000  Schock
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Tega Cay Police Department, Tega Cay, SC       Interoperability and Technology Enhancement for      $135,000  Spratt
                                                                              the City of Tega Cay Police Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Thomas County E-9-1-1, Thomasville, GA         Emergency Communications Center                      $150,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Todd County Sheriff's Department, Elkton, KY   Todd County Sheriff's Department Equipment            $50,000                                  McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Tohono O'odham Nation, Sells, AZ               Arizona Law Enforcement Communications System        $100,000  Grijalva
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Toms River Police Department, Toms River, NJ   Township-wide Wi Fi Mesh Canopy/ In-Car Video/       $700,000  Adler (NJ)
                                                                              License Plate Recognition Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Avon, Avon, CT                         Farmington Valley Regional Dispatch Center            $75,000  Murphy (CT)                     Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Ayden, Ayden, NC                       Public Safety Technology Improvement Initiative      $250,000  Butterfield
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Carmel, Mahopac, NY                    Police Vehicle Video Systems                         $145,000  Hall (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Cheektowaga, Cheektowaga, NY           Law Enforcement Technology for the Town of           $200,000  Higgins
                                                                              Cheektowaga
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Clarkstown, New City, NY               Communication System Upgrades                        $200,000  Lowey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Colmar Manor, Brentwood, MD            The Town of Colmar Manor Interoperable Radio         $100,000  Van Hollen
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Enfield, Enfield, CT                   Radio Communications Improvement Project             $750,000  Courtney                        Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Eureka, Eureka, MT                     Eureka Justice Center                                $300,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Framingham, Framingham, MA             Framingham Townwide Wireless Mesh Network            $200,000  Markey (MA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Hackleburg, Hackleburg, AL             Police Technology Upgrades                            $75,000  Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Hebron, Hebron, IN                     Law Enforcement Equipment for the Hebron Police      $190,000  Visclosky
                                                                              Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Highland, Highland, IN                 Law Enforcement Equipment for the Highland           $485,000  Visclosky
                                                                              Police Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Masontown, Masontown, WV               Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Matthews , Matthews, NC                Matthews Police Department In-Car Camera             $150,000                                  Hagan
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Merrillville, Merrillville, IN         Law Enforcement Equipment for Merrillville           $500,000  Visclosky
                                                                              Police Department
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Mooresville, Mooresville, NC           Mooresville Police Department In-Car Cameras         $125,000                                  Burr; Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Ossining Police Department,            Town of Ossining, NY, Police Department                $6,000  Lowey
                               Briarcliff Manor, NY                           Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Porter, Porter, IN                     Law Enforcement Equipment (Porter Police)             $68,000  Visclosky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Ridgeley Police Department, Ridgeley,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Southwest Ranches, Southwest Ranches,  Public Safety and Law Enforcement Equipment          $500,000  Wasserman Schultz
                               FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Vernon, Vernon, CT                     Radio System Digital Upgrade                         $300,000  Courtney
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Warren, Warren, RI                     Information Technology and Communications            $500,000  Kennedy
                                                                              Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Watertown, Watertown, CT               Emergency Communications System                      $300,000  Murphy (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of West Liberty, West Liberty, WV         Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of White Hall Police Department, White    Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               Hall, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town of Woodbury Police Department, Central    Emergency Energy Supply                               $60,000  Hall (NY)
                               Valley, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Town Watch Integrated Services, Philadelphia,  Town Watch Program                                   $100,000  Fattah
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Township of Irvington, Irvington, NJ           Irvington CAD/RMS Project                            $200,000  Payne                           Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Township of Spring, Reading, PA                Video Recorder System Purchase                        $90,000  Gerlach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Township of Woodbridge, Woodbridge, NJ         Woodbridge, New Jersey Interoperable Law             $500,000  Lance; Sires                    Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Enforcement Trunked Digital Radio System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Tulsa Police Department, Tulsa, OK             Law Enforcement Interoperability / Regional          $200,000  Sullivan                        Inhofe
                                                                              Expansion Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Umatilla County Sheriff, Pendlton, OR          Mobile Video Equipment                               $130,000  Walden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Union County Sheriff, El Dorado, AR            In-Car Video and Audio Recording Devices              $75,000  Ross
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Union County Sheriff, Lake Butler, FL          Law Enforcement Visual Intelligence Tool             $500,000  Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       University of Akron, Akron, OH                 High Technology Forensics Laboratory and             $500,000  LaTourette                      Voinovich
                                                                              Resource Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences,   UAMS Campus Security Enhancement                     $250,000                                  Pryor; Lincoln
                               Little Rock, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       University of Maryland Public Safety Training  Prince George's County Municipal                     $500,000  Hoyer
                               and Technical Assistance Program, Greenbelt,   Interoperability Upgrades
                               MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, TX    Open Source Lab for Law Enforcement                  $400,000  Reyes
                                                                              Intelligence Analysis on Latin America
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Upper Peninsula 9-1-1 Authority, Escanaba, MI  Upper Peninsula 9-1-1 Computer Aided Dispatch        $250,000  Stupak
                                                                              and Records Management System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Vermont Criminal Justice Training Council,     Vermont Police Academy Equipment                     $200,000                                  Sanders
                               Pittsford, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Vermont Department of State's Attorneys and    Equipment Support for Sheriffs' Departments          $100,000                                  Sanders
                               Sheriffs' Association, Montpelier, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Vermont Supreme Court, Court Administrator's   Vermont Judiciary Case Management and                $500,000                                  Leahy
                               Office, Montpelier, VT                         Electronic Filing System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Victoria County, Victoria, TX                  Emergency Communications Equipment                   $250,000                                  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Vienna Police Department, Vienna, WV           Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Bosque Farms, Bosque Farms, NM      Valencia County Law Enforcement Uniform Records      $400,000  Teague
                                                                              Management System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Campton Hills Police Department,    Campton Hills Police Mobile Patrol                    $25,000  Foster
                               Campton Hills, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Chagrin Falls Police Department,    Interoperable Communications and Operations          $250,000  LaTourette
                               Chagrin Falls, OH                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Clearview, Wheeling, WV             Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of La Grange Park, La Grange Park, IL  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $75,000  Lipinski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of La Grange, La Grange, IL            Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $100,000  Lipinski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Melrose Park Police Department,     Wireless Surveillance System                         $300,000  Quigley
                               Melrose Park, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Monroe Police Department, Monroe,   Law Enforcement Equipment                            $160,000  Hall (NY)
                               NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of North Aurora, North Aurora, IL      Village of North Aurora Police Digital Radio         $200,000  Foster
                                                                              Interoperability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Oak Lawn, Oak Lawn, IL              Law Enforcement Technology                           $100,000  Lipinski                        Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Pelham Manor, Pelham Manor, NY      Village of Pelham Manor, NY, Police Department        $30,000  Lowey
                                                                              Fingerprint Scanner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Skokie, Skokie, IL                  Communications Center at New Police Station          $465,000  Schakowsky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Village of Thornton, Thornton, IL              Mobile Data Browsing Software Upgrade                $100,000  Jackson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Virgin Islands Police Department, St. Croix,   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $550,000  Christensen
                               VI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Virginia Center for Policing Innovation,       Virginia Center for Policing Innovation              $300,000  Moran (VA); Nye; Scott (VA);
                               Richmond, VA                                                                                                  Wittman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Waco Police Department, Waco, TX               McLennan County Communications Technology            $650,000  Edwards (TX)
                                                                              Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wake County, Raleigh, NC                       Wake County 800 MHz Base Infrastructure              $400,000  Price (NC); Etheridge; Miller   Burr; Hagan
                                                                              Expansion                                                      (NC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wapello Police Department, Wapello, IA         Equipment Upgrades                                    $50,000  Loebsack                        Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Warner Robins Police Department, Warner        Forensic Video System                                 $20,000  Marshall
                               Robins, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Washington Parish Sheriff, Franklinton, LA     Law Enforcement Equipment                            $291,000  Scalise                         Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Washoe County Sheriff's Department, Reno, NV   Heavy Duty Command Post and Patrol Car Safety      $1,000,000  Heller                          Reid
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wayne County, Detroit, MI                      Wayne County, MI Radio Communications                $300,000  Conyers                         Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Interoperability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Webb County Sheriff, Laredo, TX                South Texas Forensics Laboratory                     $250,000  Cuellar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       West Union Police Department, West Union, WV   Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       West Valley City, West Valley City, UT         West Valley City Public Safety Communications         $50,000                                  Bennett; Hatch
                                                                              Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Weston Police Department, Weston, WV           Weston Police Department Technology Upgrade          $250,000  Capito
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Whatcom County, Bellingham, WA                 Multi-Jurisdictional Data Integration Project--      $200,000  Larsen (WA)                     Murray; Cantwell
                                                                              Whatcom Exchange Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wilcox County Sheriff, Abbeville, GA           Portable and Vehicle Radios                           $25,000  Marshall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Will County, Joliet, IL                        Integrated Criminal Justice Information              $100,000  Halvorson                       Burris
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Williamstown Police Department, Williamstown,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment              $25,000  Mollohan
                               WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wilmington Department of Police, Wilmington,   Police Weapons Range Improvements                    $400,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                               DE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Wilmington Police Department, Wilmington, NC   Gunshot Location System                              $315,000  McIntyre                        Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           COPS Tech       Yellowstone County Sheriff's Office,           Yellowstone County Mobile Digital Video Camera       $147,000  Rehberg
                               Billings, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       14th Judicial District Durham County, Durham,  14th Judicial District of Durham County: New         $100,000  Price (NC)
                               NC                                             Life Job Court
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       180 Turning Lives Around, Inc, Hazlet, NJ      180 Child and Teen Violence Reduction and            $500,000  Pallone; Holt
                                                                              Treatment Expansion, Hazlet, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       9th Judicial District, Koochiching County,     Koochiching County DUI/Substance Abuse Court         $100,000  Oberstar
                               International Falls, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       A Better Way, Inc., Columbia, SC               Project Gang Out (GO)                                $250,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       A Child Is Missing, Ft. Lauderdale, FL         A Child is Missing--Arkansas                         $200,000                                  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       A Child Is Missing, Ft. Lauderdale, FL         A Child Is Missing -- Hawaii                         $500,000                                  Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       A Child Is Missing, Inc, Ft. Lauderdale, FL    Assist in Finding Missing Children or Adults         $300,000  Klein (FL)                      Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       A Safe Haven, Chicago, IL                      Comprehensive Substance Abuse Services to Ex-        $500,000  Davis (IL)
                                                                              Offenders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Advanced Science and Technology Adjudication   Initiative to Deploy Judges Trained in Forensic      $500,000                                  Mikulski
                               Resource Center, Inc. (ASTAR), Washington,     Science and Technology Law
                               DC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital, Downers      Assisting Victims of Domestic Violence at             $75,000  Roskam
                               Grove, IL                                      Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alabama Department of Forensic Science,        AL Department of Forensic Science                  $1,400,000                                  Shelby
                               Montgomery, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alabama Department of Public Safety,           ADPS Child Sexual Predator Project                   $150,000  Aderholt; Bachus                Sessions
                               Montgomery, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alabama Department of Public Safety,           Operation Swordphish                               $1,000,000  Bachus; Bonner                  Shelby; Sessions
                               Montgomery, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alabama District Attorneys Association,        Alabama Computer Forensics Labs                      $900,000  Bonner; Aderholt; Rogers (AL)   Sessions
                               Montgomery, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alabama District Attorneys Association,        Zerometh Drug Prevention Campaign                  $1,000,000  Aderholt; Bachus; Rogers (AL)   Shelby
                               Montgomery, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alachua County, Gainesville, FL                Management of Offenders with Co-occurring            $900,000  Stearns; Brown, Corrine         Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Mental Illness and Addiction Disorders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alamo Area Rape Crisis Center, San Antonio,    National Online Hotline and Comprehensive            $200,000  Gonzalez
                               TX                                             Services for Sexual Assault Survivors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Aliviane, Inc., El Paso, TX                    The Border Institute of Excellence                   $250,000  Reyes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Alvernia University, Reading, PA               Criminal Justice Program Initiative                  $470,000  Gerlach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       American Judges Association, Williamsburg, VA  American Judges Association Judicial Education       $350,000  LaTourette
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Annapolis, Annapolis, MD                       Capital City Safe Streets Program                    $200,000  Sarbanes; Kratovil              Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Armstrong County Emergency Operating Center,   Armstrong County Emergency Operating Center          $100,000  Dahlkemper                      Specter
                               Kittanning, PA                                 Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Auburn University, Auburn, AL                  Auburn University Canine Program                     $900,000  Rogers (AL); Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Baltimore City Mayor, Baltimore, MD            Baltimore City Reentry Employment Center             $500,000  Cummings                        Mikulski; Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Baltimore City Police Department, Baltimore,   Baltimore City Gun Violence Reduction              $1,100,000  Ruppersberger                   Mikulski
                               MD                                             Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Bee County Sheriff, Beeville, TX               Equipment for New Officers                           $250,000  Hinojosa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Mississippi    Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Mississippi          $200,000  Hare
                               Valley, Davenport, IA                          Valley Expansion and Enhancement Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Billings Clinic, Billings, MT                  Billings Clinic Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner        $250,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Bluegrass Domestic Violence Program,           Bluegrass Domestic Violence Transitional             $325,000  Chandler
                               Lexington, KY                                  Housing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Borough of Jamesburg, Jamesburg, NJ            Jamesburg Police Communications Modernization         $95,000  Holt
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Boulder City Police Department, Boulder City,  Regional Law Enforcement Training Facility           $250,000                                  Reid
                               NV                                             Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Breaking Ground, Chicago, IL                   Job Training and Placement Services for Ex-          $100,000  Davis (IL)
                                                                              Offenders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       BRIDGES USA, Memphis, TN                       BRIDGES SPAN Program for Memphis City Schools        $300,000  Cohen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Brinkley Police Department, Brinkley, AR       Law Enforcement Equipment                             $62,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Brockton Area Private Industry Council, Inc.,  Gateway Program                                      $250,000  Lynch
                               Brockton, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Buffalo City Mission, Buffalo, NY              Cornerstone Manor Program Expansion                  $200,000  Slaughter                       Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Calcasieu Parish Sheriff's Office, Lake        Regional K-9 Training Facility                       $200,000                                  Vitter
                               Charles, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       California Department of Justice, Sacramento,  Gang Suppression Enforcement Team (GSET)             $100,000  Cardoza
                               CA                                             Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       California Department of Justice, Sacramento,  Riverside Gang Suppression Enforcement Team          $250,000  Calvert
                               CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       California State Department of Justice,        Gang Suppression Enforcement Teams                   $500,000                                  Feinstein
                               Bureau of Narcotics Enforcement, Sacramento,
                               CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cathedral City, Cathedral City, CA             Coachella Valley Anti-Gang Task Force Project        $500,000  Bono Mack                       Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Catholic Charities, New Orleans Region Family  Family Justice Center--Expansion of Services         $400,000  Cao                             Landrieu; Vitter
                               Justice Center, New Orleans, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       CeaseFire Chicago, Chicago, IL                 CeaseFire Chicago Project                            $250,000  Jackson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Center for Court Innovation, New York, NY      Enhanced Services for Veterans in Drug Court         $100,000  Hinchey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Center for Women Policy Studies, Washington,   National Institute on State Policy on                $400,000                                  Cantwell
                               DC                                             Trafficking of Women/Girls
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Center Point, Inc., San Rafael, CA             Re-Entry and Community Integration Services          $250,000  Woolsey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chabad of Riverside, Riverside, CA             Project PRIDE (Prevention, Resource,                 $400,000  Calvert
                                                                              Information and Drug Eradication)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chabad of Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, NV       Drug Prevention Outreach Program                     $250,000                                  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Champlain College, Burlington, VT              Champlain College Center for Digital                 $500,000                                  Leahy
                                                                              Investigation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chapman University, Orange, CA                 Chapman University Domestic Violence Clinic          $100,000  Sanchez, Loretta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department,       Gang of One Pilot Program                            $200,000  Kissell; Watt                   Burr; Hagan
                               Charlotte, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cherokee County Commission, Cherokee County,   Cherokee County Methamphetamine and Marijuana        $200,000                                  Shelby
                               AL                                             Reduction Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Eagle Butte, SD    Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe--Criminal Justice       $1,000,000                                  Johnson; Thune
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chicago School of Professional Psychology,     The Chicago School Partnership with Community        $350,000  Jackson (IL)
                               Chicago, IL                                    Mental Health Council
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters,   Child Abuse Treatment Services (VA)                  $100,000  Scott (VA)
                               Norfolk, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chrysalis House, Lexington, KY                 Chrysalis House Substance Abuse Rehabilitation       $175,000  Chandler
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Chrysalis-Changing Lives Through Jobs, Los     Ex-Offender and Homeless Job Training                $500,000  Roybal-Allard                   Boxer
                               Angeles, CA                                    Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Citizens for NYC, New York, NY                 Community Crime Stoppers                             $200,000  Crowley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Adelanto, Adelanto, CA                 Emergency Operations Center                          $375,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Austin, Austin, TX                     Austin Police Technology                             $250,000  Smith (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Belton, Belton, TX                     First Responder Equipment, Technology and            $700,000  Carter
                                                                              Interoperability Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Carlsbad, Carlsbad, CA                 Joint First Responders Training Facility             $300,000  Bilbray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Center Point, Center Point, AL         Center Point Community Policing Project              $200,000  Davis (AL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Chattanooga, Chattanooga, TN           City of Chattanooga Law Enforcement Training         $500,000  Wamp
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Colton, Colton, CA                     City of Colton Police Department Back-up             $200,000  Baca
                                                                              Generator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Columbus, Department of Public         Police Property Crime Lab                            $300,000  Kilroy                          Voinovich; Brown
                               Safety, Columbus, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Dayton, Dayton, OH                     Community Initiative to Reduce Gun Violence          $500,000                                  Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Denton, Denton, TX                     Denton Public Safety Training Facility             $1,000,000  Burgess                         Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Detroit Police Department, Detroit,    Eastside Firearm Reduction Initiative              $1,000,000  Conyers; Kilpatrick (MI)        Levin; Stabenow
                               MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Detroit, Detroit, MI                   Parolees, Technical Parole Violators, and            $550,000  Conyers; Kilpatrick (MI)
                                                                              Former Prisoners Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of East Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, CA     East Palo Alto Violence Prevention Initiative        $215,000  Eshoo                           Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Escondido, Escondido, CA               Mobile Data Computer Infrastructure                  $200,000  Bilbray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Evanston Police Department, Evanston,  Undercover Operations Personnel                       $35,000  Schakowsky
                               IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Flint Police Department, Flint, MI     Safe Highway Initiative                              $100,000  Kildee                          Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Folsom, Folsom, CA                     Folsom Emergency Operations Center                   $250,000  Lungren, Dan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Fort Wayne, Fort Wayne, IN             Palm Print AFIS                                      $600,000  Souder                          Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Glendale, Glendale, AZ                 Glendale Computer Aided Dispatch and Records       $1,000,000  Franks (AZ); Pastor (AZ)
                                                                              Management System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Glendale, Glendale, CA                 Interagency Communications Interoperability          $500,000  Schiff
                                                                              System, Glendale/Burbank, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Henderson, Henderson, NV               Regional Law Enforcement Training Facility           $300,000  Titus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Houston, Houston, TX                   Targeted Narcotics Enforcement Team, Houston,        $350,000  Culberson; Poe (TX)
                                                                              TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Hutchinson Police Department,          Emergency Response Team Equipment Upgrade            $200,000  Moran (KS)
                               Hutchinson, KS                                 Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Irondale, Irondale, AL                 Law Enforcement Equipment and Technology             $350,000  Bachus
                                                                              Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Kalispell, Kalispell, MT               Public Safety Building Modernization                 $250,000  Rehberg                         Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Kansas City, Kansas City, MO           Community Justice Program                            $100,000  Cleaver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Lakewood, Lakewood, CO                 Substance Abuse Treatment for Youth Offenders         $45,000  Perlmutter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA           Community Law Enforcement and Recovery Program       $500,000  Roybal-Allard
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA           Domestic Abuse Response Team (DART)                  $100,000  Watson; Sherman                 Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA           Gang Reduction Youth Development Zone--Pacoima       $100,000  Berman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA           Gang Reduction Youth Development Zones (GRYD       $1,200,000                                  Feinstein
                                                                              Zones)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA           Rape Kit Backlog Elimination Program                 $500,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, FL           After School Gang and Drug Prevention Program        $500,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Wasserman         Nelson, Bill
                                                                                                                                             Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Midland, Midland, TX                   Emergency Communications Equipment, Midland,         $325,000  Conaway
                                                                              Texas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Moreno Valley, Moreno Valley, CA       City of Moreno Valley Gang Prevention Program        $500,000  Bono Mack
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Moultrie, Moultrie, GA                 City of Moultrie Police Department                   $200,000  Marshall                        Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Nacogdoches, Nacogdoches, TX           Public Safety Training Initiative                    $400,000                                  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of National City, National City, CA       Homeless Outreach Program and Enforcement             $95,000  Filner
                                                                              (HOPE) Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of New Haven, New Haven, CT               Anti-Violence Community Outreach and Law             $350,000                                  Dodd
                                                                              Enforcement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of New Haven, New Haven, CT               City of New Haven Re-entry Program                   $500,000  DeLauro                         Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Newark, Newark, NJ                     Returning Offender Initiative                        $400,000  Payne; Rothman (NJ); Sires      Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Omaha, Omaha, NE                       Family Justice Center of the Midlands                $100,000                                  Nelson, Ben
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA         Youth Violence Reduction Partnership (YVRP)          $500,000  Fattah                          Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ                   Electronic Prosecutor Records Management             $100,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Prattville, Prattville, AL             Public Safety Traffic Signal Pre-emption             $150,000  Bright                          Sessions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Round Rock, Round Rock, TX             Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Carter                          Cornyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA     San Bernardino Project Phoenix Neighborhood          $500,000  Lewis (CA)
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of San Fernando, San Fernando, CA         School Resource Officer Program                      $450,000  Berman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of San Jose, San Jose, CA                 Skills to Succeed Prisoner Re-Entry Pilot            $400,000  Honda
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Stockton, Stockton, CA                 Operation Peacekeeper Gang Outreach Program          $200,000  Cardoza; McNerney               Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Trenton, Trenton, NJ                   YouthStat Violence and Gang Prevention               $310,000  Smith (NJ); Holt                Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Tucson, Tucson, AZ                     Tucson Drug Trafficking Suppression Initiative       $400,000  Giffords; Grijalva
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Valdosta, Valdosta, GA                 Valdosta/Lowndes Joint Crime Lab                     $500,000  Kingston                        Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Westminster, Westminster, CA           Asian Criminal Enterprise Initiative                 $290,000  Royce; Rohrabacher; Sanchez,
                                                                                                                                             Loretta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Wrens, Wrens, GA                       Wrens City Security Project                           $75,000  Barrow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       City of Yonkers, Yonkers, NY                   Yonkers WAVE Drug Sweep                              $300,000  Engel                           Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Claflin University, Orangeburg, SC             Claflin Certified Forensics Laboratory             $1,000,000  Clyburn                         Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Claiborne County Sheriff, Port Gibson, MS      County-wide Law Enforcement Programs                 $100,000  Thompson (MS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Clarke County Sheriff, Berryville, VA          Northwest Regional Gang Task Force                 $1,000,000  Wolf                            Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Clearfield City, Clearfield, UT                Digital Technology for Drug Enforcement/Gang-        $425,000  Bishop (UT)                     Bennett; Hatch
                                                                              Related Strategic Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Coalition for a Drug-Free Lanai, Lanai City,   Youth Mentoring Program                               $25,000  Hirono
                               HI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       College of Holy Cross, Worcester, MA           At-Risk Youth Empowerment Initiative                 $400,000  McGovern                        Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Community Foundation of Wyandotte County,      NeighborhoodsNOW Crime and Safety Initiative         $500,000  Moore (KS)
                               Kansas City, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Community YMCA, Middleton, NJ                  Gang Prevention Program                              $500,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Conservation Corps of Long Beach, Long Beach,  Environmental Job Training Program for Youth At-     $100,000  Sanchez, Linda
                               CA                                             Risk in Southeast Los Angeles County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Converging Industries Research Foundation,     Massachusetts Initiative for Real-Time Wireless      $250,000  Capuano
                               Cambridge, MA                                  Emergency Communications
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cook County Sheriff's Office, Chicago, IL      Mental Health Services for Female Offenders          $300,000                                  Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Coos County Sheriff's Office, Coquille, OR     South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team (SCINT)       $600,000                                  Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Los Angeles Sheriff's Department,    Rape Kit Backlog Reduction Program                 $1,000,000  Schiff
                               Monterey Park, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Los Angeles Sheriff's Office,        Los Angeles Sheriff Anti-Gang Intelligence Data      $300,000                                  Feinstein
                               Monterrey Park, CA                             Sharing and Analysis Database
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Merrimack, Concord, NH               Mental Health Court Pilot Program                    $250,000  Hodes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Monterey, Salinas, CA                Monterey County Street and Anti-Gang Project         $500,000  Farr                            Feinstein; Boxer
                                                                              (aka: Gang Task Force)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Muskegon, Muskegon, MI               Community Re-entry Program                           $150,000                                  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of Peoria, Peoria, IL                   Mental Health Court                                  $500,000  Schock                          Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of San Diego, District Attorney, San    DA Gang and Drug Crime Investigation and             $200,000  Davis (CA); Filner              Boxer
                               Diego, CA                                      Prosecution
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       County of San Diego, Sheriff's Department,     San Diego County Regional Gang Enforcement           $350,000  Hunter; Filner; Davis (CA)
                               San Diego, CA                                  Collaborative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Covenant House California, Oakland, CA         Covenant House, Oakland Housing and Career           $250,000  Lee (CA)
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Covenant House, New York City, NY              Covenant House Stop Child Trafficking Project        $200,000                                  Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Criminal Justice Institute, Little Rock, AR    Arkansas School Resource Officer Program             $600,000  Boozman; Berry; Snyder          Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Criminal Justice Institute, Little Rock, AR    Cyber Crimes Investigation Training Initiative       $100,000  Boozman; Snyder                 Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Criminal Justice Institute, Little Rock, AR    Rural Executive Management Institute (REMI)          $200,000  Berry
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Criminal Justice Institute, Little Rock, AR    Rural Law Enforcement Training Initiative          $1,000,000  Boozman; Snyder                 Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Criminal Justice Training Center, Golden West  Virtual Interactive Training Simulator               $900,000  Rohrabacher
                               College, Huntington Beach, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cuyahoga County Board of County                Cuyahoga County Fatherhood Initiative                $300,000  Kucinich                        Brown
                               Commissioners, Cleveland, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Cuyahoga County Board of County                Cuyahoga County Prisoner Re-entry Program            $400,000  Kucinich; Fudge
                               Commissioners, Cleveland, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Dakota County, Hastings, MN                    Regional Police Records Management System for        $200,000                                  Klobuchar
                                                                              Dakota County Law Enforcement Agencies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Day One, Providence, RI                        Child Advocacy Services Expansion                    $250,000                                  Reed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Digital Development Corporation and Oversight  SECOND CHANCES Job Training Program                  $250,000  Davis (IL)
                               Committee (DDCOC), Chicago, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       District Attorney's Office, Denver, CO         Cold Case DNA Project                                $350,000                                  Udall, M.; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Diverse and Resilient, Inc., Milwaukee, WI     Diverse and Resilient, Inc.                          $155,000  Baldwin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Dixie State College, St. George, UT            Southwest Regional Criminal Justice Computer       $1,000,000  Matheson                        Bennett
                                                                              Crime Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Doe Fund, Inc., New York, NY                   Ready, Willing & Able                                $600,000  Nadler (NY); Towns; Maloney
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       East Bay Community Law Center, Berkeley, CA    Clean Slate Clinic for Community Re-entry &          $250,000  Lee (CA)
                                                                              Reintegration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       East Helena Police Department, East Helena,    East Helena Community Policing Hiring Effort          $60,000  Rehberg
                               MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       East Stroudsburg University, East              The Cyber Crime and Forensics Institute              $500,000  Kanjorski                       Specter; Casey
                               Stroudsburg, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Eisenhower Foundation, Jackson, MS             Eisenhower Foundation National Multiple              $250,000                                  Cochran
                                                                              Solutions Safe Haven Replication and
                                                                              Evaluation Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Emanuel County Board of Commissioners,         Emanuel County Emergency Vehicle Acquisition         $100,000  Barrow
                               Swainsboro, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Enough is Enough, Great Falls, VA              VA Internet Safety 101                               $160,000  Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Enough Is Enough, Uintah County, UT            Utah Internet Safety 101: Empowering Parents         $250,000  Bishop (UT)                     Bennett; Hatch;
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Episcopal Community Services of Maryland,      Jericho Workforce Development Initiative for Ex-     $500,000  Ruppersberger; Cummings         Mikulski
                               Baltimore, MD                                  Offenders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Essex County District Attorney, Salem, MA      Child Abuse, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Assault       $250,000  Tierney
                                                                              Specialized Prosecution Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Essex County Sheriff's Department, Middleton,  Comprehensive Substance Abuse Education and          $280,000  Tsongas; Tierney                Kennedy; Kerry
                               MA                                             Treatment Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Exeter Police Department, Reading, PA          Berks County Emergency Response Team (BCERT)         $350,000  Gerlach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Fairfield Police Department, Fairfield, IL     Farifield Police Department Emergency                $110,000  Shimkus
                                                                              Communications and Equipment Upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Family Justice Center, Hillsborough County,    Family Justice Center                                $200,000  Castor (FL)
                               Tampa, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Family Reentry, Norwalk, CT                    Fresh Start Reentry Program                          $900,000  Larson (CT); Himes              Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Father's Day Rally, Philadelphia, PA           FDRC                                                 $250,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Findlay Police Department, Findlay, IL         Findlay Police Equipment                              $10,000  Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       First Step, Taylor, MI                         First Step Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner             $200,000  Dingell
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Florida Gulf Coast University, Ft. Myers, FL   FGCU Law Enforcement and Public Safety               $200,000  Mack
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Fort Belknap Indian Community, Harlem, MT      Tribal Courts Operations and Law Enforcement         $300,000                                  Tester; Baucus
                                                                              Activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Fulton County, Atlanta, GA                     Fulton County High Intensity Crime Area Task         $100,000  Scott (GA); Lewis (GA)          Chambliss
                                                                              Force
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Gallatin County, Bozeman, MT                   Gallatin County Treatment Court                      $185,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Genesee Community College, Batavia, NY         Integrated Campus Security Initiative                $537,000  Lee (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Georgia Bureau of Investigation, Decatur, GA   Georgia Bureau of Investigation's Justice            $300,000                                  Isakson
                                                                              Information Management Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Glenville State College, Glenville, WV         Glenville State College, WV Anti-Recidivism          $406,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Prisoner Education Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Glenville State College, Glenville, WV         Glenville State College, WV Electronic Crimes        $200,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Education and Training Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Greater Nashua Mental Health Center, Nashua,   Court Partnership Project                            $325,000                                  Shaheen
                               NH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Greenville County, Greenville, SC              Joint Emergency Medical Services / 911 Dispatch      $100,000                                  Graham
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Grundy County Emergency Telephone System       Grundy County ETSB Consolidation Project E911        $100,000  Halvorson
                               Board, Morris, IL                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Guardian Angel Community Services, Joliet, IL  Transitional Living Program                          $100,000  Halvorson                       Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Guilford College, Greensboro, NC               Enhancing Technical Expertise in Forensics in        $100,000  Miller (NC)
                                                                              Guilford County, North Carolina
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hampden County Sheriff, Ludlow, MA             Integrated Reentry Program                           $350,000  Neal
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hanover Park Police Department, Hanover Park,  Rapid Response to School Violence                     $48,000  Roskam
                               IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Harris County Constable Precinct 4, Spring,    Preventing Violence Against Women                     $90,000  Poe (TX)
                               TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Harris County Constable Precinct Six,          Gang Identification and Enforcement Unit             $110,000  Green, Gene; Green, Al
                               Houston, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hawaii Immigrant Justice Center, Honolulu, HI  Human Rights Alliance                                $200,000  Abercrombie; Hirono             Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Henry C. Lee Institute of Forensic Science,    Regional Crime Scene Response Team                   $200,000  DeLauro
                               New Haven, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Holmes County Sheriff Department, Lexington,   County-wide Law Enforcement Programs                 $100,000  Thompson (MS)
                               MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Homestretch, Falls Church, VI                  Homelessness and Domestic Violence Programs          $300,000  Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hope House, Inc., Lee's Summit, MO             Hope House Guardian Program                          $200,000                                  Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hope Through Housing Foundation, Rancho        After School and Beyond -Violence Prevention         $850,000  Miller, Gary; Baca; Tauscher
                               Cucamonga, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Housing Authority of Plainfield, Plainfield,   After School Programs and Gang Prevention Job        $250,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
                               NJ                                             Training Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Houston Police Department, Houston, TX         Mobile AFIS Equipment and LiveScan Equipment         $910,000  Poe (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Hoxie Police Department, Hoxie, AR             Law Enforcement Programs and Equipment                $50,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Idaho Department of Corrections, Boise, ID     NCOMS Medical and Mental Health Sharing              $500,000  Simpson                         Crapo; Risch
                                                                              Software Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Idaho State Police, Meridian, ID               Idaho State Police (ISP) Participation in            $500,000  Simpson                         Crapo; Risch
                                                                              Criminal Information Sharing Alliance Network
                                                                              (CISAnet)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Independent Development Enterprise Alliance,   Project Clean Slate                                  $450,000                                  Wyden; Merkley
                               Portland, OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Institute for the Study and Practice of        Nonviolence Program                                  $300,000  Langevin; Kennedy               Reed; Whitehouse
                               Nonviolence, Providence, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa Central Community College, Ft. Dodge, IA  Iowa Central Law Enforcement Training Center         $500,000  Latham                          Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa Governor, Des Moines, IA                  Drug Endangered Children Program and Drug            $300,000  Boswell                         Harkin; Grassley
                                                                              Diversion Deterrence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa Legal Aid, Des Moines, IA                 Health and Law Project                               $300,000                                  Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa State University, Ames, IA                Internet Scale Event & Attack Generation             $400,000  Latham
                                                                              Environment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa State University, Ames, IA                Internet-Scale Event and Attack Generation           $200,000                                  Harkin; Grassley
                                                                              Environment (ISEAGE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Iowa State University, Ames, IA                Iowa State Forensic Testing Lab                    $1,400,000  Latham                          Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Izard County Sheriff, Melbourne, AR            Calico Rock Police Program                           $100,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Jackson State University, Jackson, MS          National Center for Biodefense Communications        $750,000                                  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Jefferson County Sheriff, Fayette, MS          County-wide Law Enforcement Programs                 $100,000  Thompson (MS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Jersey City Housing Authority, Jersey City,    Drug Elimination Program                             $300,000                                  Lautenberg
                               NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New      National Academy for Reentry Policy and              $100,000  Rangel; Engel; Towns
                               York, NY                                       Practice
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       John Marshall Law School, Chicago, IL          Veterans Legal Support Center                        $350,000                                  Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Johnson County Sheriff, Cleburne, TX           Stop the Offender Program                            $200,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Joiner Police Department, Joiner, AR           Law Enforcement Programs and Equipment               $100,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Justice 2000, Inc., Milwaukee, WI              Community Justice Centers                            $100,000  Moore (WI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       KidsPeace, Evansville, IN                      KidsPeace Evansville Therapeutic Foster Care         $300,000  Ellsworth                       Lugar
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       King County Sheriff's Office, Seattle, WA      Gang Intervention Initiative                         $400,000  McDermott                       Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       King County Sheriff's Office, Seattle, WA      King County Sheriff's Office School Resource         $300,000                                  Murray; Cantwell
                                                                              Officers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       King of Kings Foundation, Jamaica, NY          Anti-Drug & Anti-Gang Warriors Program               $290,000  Meeks (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Kokomo Police Department, Kokomo, IN           Kokomo Police Department Forensic Crime Lab          $100,000  Donnelly (IN)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Lackawanna County, Scranton, PA                Lackawanna County Treatment Court                    $100,000  Carney                          Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Lane County Administration, Eugene, OR         Offender Treatment and Transition Program            $500,000  DeFazio
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Lane County, Eugene, OR                        Public Safety Technology Improvements                $500,000                                  Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Laredo Community College, Laredo, TX           Terrorist Interdiction Law Enforcement Training      $400,000                                  Cornyn
                                                                              Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, Las  Justice Information Sharing Program                $1,000,000  Berkley; Titus                  Reid
                               Vegas, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       LIGALY, Bayshore, NY                           The Anti-Violence Project                            $500,000  Israel                          Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Local Initiatives Support Corporation, New     LISC Community Safety Initiative                     $225,000  Oberstar; Conyers; Langevin
                               York, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Loudoun County Sheriff's Office, Leesburg, VA  Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force         $3,000,000  Wolf; Connolly (VA); Moran      Webb; Warner
                                                                                                                                             (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Louisiana Sheriffs' Association, Baton Rouge,  Law Enforcement Technology and Equipment             $300,000  Alexander                       Landrieu; Vitter
                               LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Lucas County TASC, Inc., Toledo, OH            Reentry Coalition Of Northwest Ohio                  $300,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Maryland State Police, Pikesville, MD          Gang Elimination Task Force                        $1,000,000  Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Mattie Rhodes Center, Kansas City, MO          Latino Youth Crime Prevention Project                $250,000  Cleaver
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Men Aspiring Leaders through Education, Inc.,  M.A.L.E. Reentry Program                             $250,000  Green, Al
                               Houston, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Men of Valor Academy, Oakland, CA              Juvenile Delinquency Prevention Center for           $100,000  Lee (CA)
                                                                              Building Our Community Green
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Metropolitan Crimes Commission, New Orleans,   Metropolitan Crimes Commission                       $500,000                                  Vitter
                               LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Miami Dade College North Campus, Miami, FL     Officer Tactical Facility Enhancements               $200,000  Meek (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Miami-Dade County, Miami, FL                   Mortgage Fraud Task Force                            $150,000  Meek (FL); Diaz-Balart,         Nelson, Bill;
                                                                                                                                             Lincoln; Diaz-Balart, Mario;    Martinez
                                                                                                                                             Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Micronesian Legal Services Corporation,        Legal Services Outreach, Internet Upgrade and        $180,000  Sablan
                               Saipan, MP                                     Immigration Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Middlesex County Prosecutor's Office, New      SPEAK UP Hotline Outreach and Public Education       $500,000  Holt; Pallone                   Lautenberg; Menendez
                               Brunswick, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Minnesota State Patrol, St. Paul, MN           MN 8th District State Patrol In-Squad Digital        $240,000  Oberstar
                                                                              Cameras
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Mississippi Military Department, Jackson, MS   Regional Counterdrug Training Academy                $300,000  Harper
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS   For Law Enforcement Intelligence Software          $1,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS   MSU Cyber Crime Initiative and National            $1,500,000  Harper                          Cochran; Wicker
                                                                              Consortium for Digital Forensics Training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Monmouth County Sheriff, Freehold, NJ          Trunk Radio System                                   $120,000  Holt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Monroe County Department of Public Safety,     Biology/DNA Module                                   $200,000  Slaughter                       Schumer; Gillibrand
                               Rochester, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Monroe County Department of Public Safety,     Monroe County Regional Crime Laboratory              $100,000  Maffei
                               Rochester, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Montana Sheriffs and Peace Officers            Montana Offender Notification and Tracking           $300,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
                               Association, Helena, MT                        System--Juvenile Justice System (MONTS-JJS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Montana State University Billings, Billings,   Academic & Workforce Development Program at the      $100,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
                               MT                                             Montana Women's Prison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       MTSU, Murfreesboro, TN                         Training of Law Enforcement Personnel                $625,000  Gordon (TN)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Multi-County Juvenile Attention System         Tuscarawas Attention Center Project                  $275,000  Space
                               (MCJAS), Canton, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Multnomah County, Portland, OR                 Department of Community Justice Re-Entry             $500,000  Blumenauer; Wu                  Wyden; Merkley
                                                                              Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       My Home, Your Home Inc., Milwaukee, WI         Lissy's Place                                        $180,000  Moore (WI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Nassau County Executive, Mineola, NY           Family Court Technology Improvements                 $235,000  McCarthy (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Nassau County Police Department, Mineola, NY   Heroin Abatement Program                             $385,000  King (NY)                       Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       National Center for State Courts,              State Courts Improvement Initiative                  $500,000  Bishop (UT); Carter; Gonzalez;  Leahy; Bennett;
                               Williamsburg, VA                                                                                              Granger; Hirono; Sarbanes;      Hutchison; Johnson;
                                                                                                                                             Smith (TX); Wittman             Pryor; Kennedy;
                                                                                                                                                                             Hatch; Chambliss;
                                                                                                                                                                             Akaka; Graham;
                                                                                                                                                                             Lincoln; Sanders;
                                                                                                                                                                             Warner; Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       National Council of Juvenile and Family Court  Child Abuse Training Programs for Judicial         $1,875,000  Granger; Berkley; Conyers;      Leahy; Bennett;
                               Judges, Reno, NV                               Personnel: Victims Act Model Courts Project                    Grijalva; Honda; McDermott;     Landrieu; Reid
                                                                                                                                             Titus                           Hatch; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       National District Attorneys Association,       National Advocacy Center State and Local           $1,175,000  Spratt; Ruppersberger;          Leahy; Alexander;
                               Alexandria, VA                                 Prosecutors Training Program                                   Kratovil; Aderholt; Rothman     Graham; Corker
                                                                                                                                             (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       National Forensic Science Technology Center,   National Forensic Science Technology Center,       $2,000,000  Young (FL)
                               Largo, FL                                      Forensic Technology Center of Excellence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       National Judicial College, Reno, NV            Judicial Education and Scholarships for Judges       $500,000                                  Reid; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Nebraska Advocacy Services, Scottsbluff, NE    Center for Disability Rights, Law & Advocacy         $200,000                                  Nelson, Ben
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Nevada Department of Public Safety Parole and  State of Nevada, Parole and Probation                $150,000  Titus                           Reid
                               Probation, Carson City, NV                     Technological Advancement and Improvement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Hampshire Attorney General's Office,       NH Multi-Jurisdictional Drug Task Force and          $750,000                                  Gregg
                               Concord, NH                                    Drug Interdiction Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Hampshire State Police, Concord, NH        Operation Streetsweeper                              $750,000                                  Gregg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Jersey Department of Children and          Child Forensic Interviewers for Child Advocacy       $100,000  Holt; Pascrell                  Lautenberg; Menendez
                               Families, Trenton, NJ                          Centers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Jersey Institute for Technology, Newark,   User-Authenticating Personalized Weapon            $1,000,000  Pascrell; Payne                 Lautenberg; Menendez
                               NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Man Development Community Corporation,     Employment Preparation Project at New Man             $25,000  Coble
                               Rehrersburg, PA                                Development Community Corporation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Mexico Adminstrative Office of the         Drug Court Program                                   $300,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               Courts, Santa Fe, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Mexico Attorney General, Albuquerque, NM   Human Trafficking Task Force                         $215,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Mexico Attorney General, Santa Fe, NM      Environmental Crimes Unit Outreach and Training      $220,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Mexico Coalition Against Domestic          Hispanic Community Outreach                          $200,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               Violence, Albuquerque, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Mexico Corrections Department, Santa Fe,   Prisoner Reentry Initiative                          $500,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       New Orleans Crime Coalition/New Orleans        New Orleans Crime Coalition                        $1,500,000  Cao                             Landrieu; Vitter
                               Business Council, New Orleans, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Nez Perce Tribe, Lapwai, ID                    Children's Justice/Child Protection                  $100,000                                  Crapo; Risch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       North Arlington Borough, North Arlington, NJ   Cops in Schools and Cops on the Street               $100,000  Rothman (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC   Center for Forensic Sciences-NCSU                    $175,000  Miller (NC)                     Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       North Louisiana Crime Laboratory Commission,   North Louisiana Crime Lab                            $400,000                                  Landrieu; Vitter
                               Shreveport, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Northampton Community College, Bethlehem, PA   Campus-Wide Security System                          $300,000  Kanjorski                       Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Northern Kentucky Drug Strike Force,           Northern Kentucky Drug Strike Force                   $35,000                                  Bunning
                               Covington, KY                                  Pharmaceutical Diversion Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Northwest Missouri Interagency Team Response   Multi-Jurisdictional Drug and Violent Offender       $200,000  Graves
                               Operation, Cameron, MO                         Task Force
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       NYC Police Foundation, New York, NY            Project COPE                                         $500,000  McMahon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Office of Human Affairs, Newport News, VA      Visual and Performing Arts After School              $100,000  Scott (VA)
                                                                              Program, Newport News, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Office of the King's County District           ComALERT Project                                     $100,000  Weiner
                               Attorney, Brooklyn, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Office of the Queens County District           Specialized Effort to Combat Financial Crimes        $100,000  Weiner
                               Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY                      and Mortgage Fraud
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oglala Sioux Tribe Department of Public        Oglala Sioux Tribe Department of Public Safety     $1,200,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Johnson; Thune
                               Safety, Pine Ridge, SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Ohio Attorney General, Columbus, OH            University Of Toledo and Ohio Attorney General       $100,000  Kaptur
                                                                              Forensic Crime Lab
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation,        Oklahoma Participation in the Criminal               $700,000                                  Inhofe
                               Oklahoma City, OK                              Information Sharing Alliance Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oldham County Sheriff's Office, LaGrange, KY   Equipment Upgrades, Oldham County Sheriff, KY         $75,000  Davis (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Operation Our Town, Altoona, PA                Drug Treatment and Prevention                        $300,000  Shuster
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Operation UNITE, Somerset, KY                  Narcotics Law Enforcement & Interdiction,          $4,450,000  Rogers (KY)
                                                                              Education and Deterrence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force,    Victim and Outreach Services Enhancements            $220,000  Sanchez, Loretta
                               Westminster, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oregon Health and Science University,          Multidisciplinary Institute for                      $200,000  Blumenauer; Wu                  Wyden; Merkley
                               Portland, OR                                   Neuropsychiatric Diagnosis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oregon Partnership, Portland, OR               Rx for Saving Oregon Teens                           $470,000  Walden; Wu                      Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Oriana House, Inc., Akron, OH                  Misdemeanant Facility                                $150,000  Ryan (OH); Sutton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Parents for Megan, Stony Brook, NY             Institute Sex Offender Registration Tips (SORT)      $300,000  Israel; Bishop (NY); King (NY)  Schumer; Gillibrand
                                                                              and Support Programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       PAX/Real Solutions to Gun Violence, New York,  SPEAK UP Hotline and Awareness Campaign Access       $240,000  Pascrell; McCarthy (NY)
                               NY                                             Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Pennyrile Narcotic Task Force, Hopkinsville,   Law Enforcement Programs and Equipment               $750,000  Whitfield
                               KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Penobscot County Sheriff, Bangor, ME           Taskforce to Collaborate with Maine Schools in       $250,000  Michaud
                                                                              a Comprehensive Multi-Hazard Interoperable
                                                                              Response Plan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Peralta Community College District, Oakland,   Oakland Center for Public Safety at Merritt          $125,000  Lee (CA)
                               CA                                             College
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Perry Police Department, Perry, FL             Perry Police Department Canine Program               $105,000  Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Persad Center, Inc., Pittsburgh, PA            Community Safe Zone                                  $150,000  Doyle                           Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Philadelphia Safety Net, Philadelphia, PA      Safety Net Program                                   $300,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Phoenix House, Dallas, TX                      Increasing Access to Substance Abuse Treatment       $100,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice          Hutchison; Cornyn
                                                                              Services for Texas Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Phoenix House, Dublin, NH                      Clinical Management System                           $200,000  Hodes                           Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Phoenix House, New York, NY                    Drug Treatment Technology Project                    $500,000  Rangel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Phoenix House, Springfield, MA                 Drug Treatment Technology Enhancement                $500,000  Neal                            Kennedy; Kerry
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Portage County Commissioners, Adult            Community Integration and Socialization Program      $200,000  Ryan (OH)
                               Probabtion Department, Ravenna, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       PROGRAM for Offenders, Pittsburgh, PA          Family Reunification Project                         $100,000  Doyle                           Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Protecting Sexually Exploited Children, Las    Nevada Safe House Project                            $125,000                                  Reid
                               Vegas, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Providence Police Department, Providence, RI   Providence Gun Violence Prevention and Gang        $1,000,000  Kennedy                         Reed; Whitehouse
                                                                              Reduction Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Puyallup Tribe of Indians, Tacoma, WA          Puyallup Justice Center Project                      $400,000  Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Rape Crisis Center, Las Vegas, NV              Child Assault Prevention and Education Project       $125,000                                  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Rape, Abuse, Incest National Network (RAINN),  Rape, Abuse, Incest National Network                 $300,000  Aderholt; Grijalva; Maloney;    Leahy; Feinstein;
                               Washington, DC                                                                                                Matsui; Moran (VA); Ros-        Johnson; Pryor;
                                                                                                                                             Lehtinen; Rothman (NJ);         Dodd; Schumer;
                                                                                                                                             Ruppersberger; Sutton           Hatch; Kerry;
                                                                                                                                                                             Crapo; Rockefeller;
                                                                                                                                                                             Boxer; Stabenow;
                                                                                                                                                                             Wyden; Akaka;
                                                                                                                                                                             Lieberman; Lincoln;
                                                                                                                                                                             Nelson, Bill;
                                                                                                                                                                             Menendez; Sanders;
                                                                                                                                                                             Cardin; Whitehouse;
                                                                                                                                                                             Klobuchar;
                                                                                                                                                                             Gillibrand;
                                                                                                                                                                             Kaufman; Casey;
                                                                                                                                                                             Merkley; Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Ready Willing & Able, Philadelphia, PA         Ready Willing & Able Philadelphia Program            $200,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Ridge House, Reno, NV                          Prisoner Re-Entry Program                            $200,000                                  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Rio Hondo College, Whittier, CA                Regional Homeland Security Training Center           $300,000  Napolitano; Miller, Gary;
                                                                              Initiative                                                     Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Rockdale County Sheriff's Office, Rockdale     Gang Intervention Project                            $250,000  Johnson (GA); Scott (GA)        Chambliss
                               County, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Rosebud, SD               Rosebud Sioux Tribe--Criminal Justice System         $300,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sacramento Police Department, Sacramento, CA   Sacramento Police Department Cold Case Justice       $100,000  Matsui
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Safe Streets Campaign, Tacoma, WA              Pierce County Regional Gang Prevention               $500,000  Dicks; Smith (WA)               Murray
                                                                              Partnership, Safe Streets Campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Safer Foundation, Chicago, IL                  Community Reentry Program                            $350,000                                  Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Saginaw County Sheriff, Saginaw, MI            Facilitating Justice Information Sharing             $280,000  Kildee                          Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Salem Police Department, Salem, MA             Regional Approach to Law Enforcement Technology      $250,000  Tierney
                                                                              Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX   Sam Houston State University Regional Crime        $1,000,000  Brady (TX)                      Hutchison; Cornyn
                                                                              Laboratory
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       San Diego Second Chance Program, San Diego,    Second Chance Prisoner Reentry Employment            $400,000  Filner
                               CA                                             Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       San Francisco District Attorney, San           San Francisco Reentry Center                         $750,000  Pelosi
                               Francisco, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       San Jose State University Research             Community Collaborative Response to Victims of       $440,000  Lofgren, Zoe; Honda
                               Foundation, San Jose, CA                       Domestic Violence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sanctuary, Inc., Chalan Pago, GU               Sanctuary, Inc.--At-Risk Youth Services              $150,000  Bordallo
                                                                              Programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sanders County Coalition for Families,         Creating Women's Resource Center and Housing         $400,000                                  Tester
                               Thompson Falls, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Saving Our Seeds, Chicago, IL                  Life Skills Program                                   $51,000  Davis (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) Center,    Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) Center           $400,000  Young (AK)                      Begich
                               Anchorage, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Shelby Township Police Department, Shelby      Law Enforcement Programs, Prosecution, Drug          $200,000  Miller (MI)
                               Township, MI                                   Treatment and Enforcement Programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Simon Wiesenthal Center, Los Angeles, CA       Tools for Tolerance                                $1,000,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate, Agency Village, SD    Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate Transition Assistance        $110,000  Herseth Sandlin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sisters of Charity, Columbia, SC               Jobs Not Jail: An Alternative to Incarceration       $265,000  Spratt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Somerset County, Skowhegan, ME                 Technology Equipment Upgrades                        $550,000  Michaud                         Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       South Western Judicial Circuit Family          Domestic Violence Advocate                            $75,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Violence Council, Inc., Americus, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Southeast Missouri Network Against Sexual      Enhanced Victim Assistance                           $200,000  Emerson
                               Violence, Cape Girardeau, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Southeast Missouri State University, Cape      Establishment of a Forensic Science Research         $700,000                                  Bond
                               Girardeau, MO                                  and Education Laboratory
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Southwest Tennessee Community College,         Forensic Science Program                             $100,000  Cohen
                               Memphis, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       St. Petersburg College, St. Petersburg, FL     St. Petersburg College National Terrorism          $1,500,000  Young (FL)
                                                                              Preparedness Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       St. Thomas University, Miami Gardens, FL       Human Trafficking Initiative                         $500,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Wasserman         Nelson, Bill
                                                                                                                                             Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, Fort Yates, ND      Standing Rock Sioux Tribal Justice and Public        $400,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Thune
                                                                              Safety
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       State of Alaska, Anchorage, AK                 Drug and Alcohol Interdiction, Rural Law             $900,000                                  Murkowski
                                                                              Enforcement Training and Equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       State of Iowa, Department of Public Health,    Jail-Based Substance Abuse Treatment               $1,200,000                                  Harkin; Grassley
                               Polk, Scott, Story, Woodbury Counties, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       State of Iowa, Iowa Department of Corrections- Transitional Mental Health Reentry Program           $250,000                                  Harkin; Grassley;
                               -Division of Offender Services, Des Moines,
                               IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Stearns County, St Cloud, MN                   Domestic Violence Court                              $100,000                                  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Sterling Heights Police Department, Sterling   Law Enforcement Programs, Prosecution, Drug          $300,000  Miller (MI)
                               Heights, MI                                    Treatment and Enforcement Programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Stetston University College of Law, Gulfport,  National Clearing House for Science, Technology      $400,000  Young (FL)
                               FL                                             and the Law
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Stop It Now!, Northampton, MA                  Stop It Now! Child Abuse Prevention Helpline         $250,000  Neal                            Kennedy; Kerry
                                                                              Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Suffolk County Police Department, Yaphank, NY  Suffolk County, NY, Police Department Computer       $250,000  Bishop (NY); King (NY)
                                                                              Crimes Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Superior Police Department, Superior, WI       Forensic Technology Task Force                       $550,000  Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Survivors, Inc., Gettysburg, PA                Legal Advocacy and Hotline Project                    $25,000  Platts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Synergy Services, Parkville, MO                Community Response to Domestic Violence              $140,000  Graves
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Tahirih Justice Center, Falls Church, VA       Immigrant Women and Girls Legal Services             $500,000  Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Tallahassee Community College, Tallahassee,    Florida Public Safety Institute                      $245,000  Boyd; Crenshaw                  Nelson, Bill;
                               FL                                                                                                                                            Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Tarleton State University, Stephenville, TX    Tarleton State University Rural Law Enforcement    $1,500,000  Carter
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Taylor County Sheriff, Medford, WI             Law Enforcement Technology                         $1,000,000  Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Team Focus, Inc., Mobile, AL                   Mississippi Team Focus Mentoring Project             $400,000                                  Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Team Focus, Inc., Mobile, AL                   South Carolina Team Focus Mentoring Project          $500,000  Spratt                          Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Texas Border Sheriffs Coalition, El Paso, TX   Operation Linebacker                               $4,850,000  Culberson                       Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Texas Engineering Extension Service Texas      ALERRT                                             $1,300,000  Conaway; Granger; Edwards
                               A&M, San Marcos, TX                                                                                           (TX); Johnson, Eddie Bernice;
                                                                                                                                             Smith (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Texas Engineering Extension Service, College   Forensic Science Academy                             $500,000  Edwards (TX)
                               Station, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Thiel College, Greenville, PA                  Thiel College Community Police Partnership           $500,000  Dahlkemper
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Toledo Fair Housing Council, Toledo, OH        Predatory Lending Program                            $125,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Touro College Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Center,   Veterans Legal Advocacy Clinic                       $100,000                                  Schumer
                               Central Islip , NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Town of Greenburgh Adult Drug Treatment        Town of Greenburgh, NY, Adult Drug Court              $50,000  Lowey
                               Court, Greenburgh, NY                          Treatment Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Township of North Brunswick, North Brunswick,  North Brunswick Video Surveillance Program           $185,000  Holt
                               NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Troy University, Troy, AL                      Computer Forensic Institute and Lab                  $200,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Tulane University, New Orleans, LA             Domestic Violence Clinic                             $200,000  Cao                             Landrieu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Tulsa Public Schools, Tulsa, OK                TPS Campus Police Force                              $300,000  Sullivan                        Inhofe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Turning Point, Inc., Woodstock, IL             Law Enforcement Advocacy Partnership (LEAP)          $300,000  Bean
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Uintah County, Vernal, UT                      Uintah County Drug Court                             $200,000  Matheson                        Bennett; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       United Tribes Technical College, Bismarck, ND  Tribal Law Enforcement Training                      $400,000                                  Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       United Way for Southeastern Michigan,          United Way for Southeastern Michigan Ex-             $300,000  Conyers
                               Detroit, MI                                    Offender Reentry Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Alabama at Birmingham,           Model State Partnership for Cybercrime and           $500,000  Aderholt
                               Birmingham, AL                                 Security
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL          Domestic Violence Law Clinic                         $300,000  Aderholt                        Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ              Binational Migration Institute                       $250,000  Grijalva
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond, OK     UCO/State of Oklahoma Forensic Laboratory            $300,000  Fallin                          Inhofe
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago,    CeaseFire at the University of Illinois at           $500,000                                  Durbin; Burris
                               IL                                             Chicago
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Maryland Public Safety Training  Prince George's County-Montgomery County Gang      $2,700,000  Van Hollen; Hoyer; Edwards
                               and Technical Assistance Program, Greenbelt,   Prevention and Suppression Task Force                          (MD)
                               MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Memphis, Memphis, TN             Memphis- Shelby County Operation Safe Community    $1,000,000  Cohen                           Alexander; Corker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Mississippi, Oxford, MS          National Center for Justice and the Rule of Law    $2,000,000  Childers                        Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, NV  Nevada Immigrant Resource Clinic                     $350,000                                  Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH        Consolidated Advanced Technologies Laboratory        $300,000                                  Gregg
                                                                              (CATLab)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND    Native American Into Law                             $300,000  Pomeroy                         Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Southern Mississippi,            Cannabis Eradication                                 $500,000                                  Cochran
                               Hattiesburg, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Southern Mississippi,            Mississippi Automated Systems Project              $1,250,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               Hattiesburg, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Southern Mississippi,            Mississippi Rural Law Enforcement Training           $350,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               Hattiesburg, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, TX        Texas Cyber Security Research and Training           $529,000  Gohmert
                                                                              Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of Toledo, Toledo, OH               Ohio Trafficking in Persons Study Group              $250,000  Kaptur                          Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       University of West Georgia, Carrollton, GA     University of West Georgia K-12 School Safety        $250,000  Gingrey (GA)                    Chambliss
                                                                              and Emergency Response Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Urban League of Greater Cincinnati,            Initiative to Reduce Violence                        $100,000                                  Brown
                               Cincinnati, OH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Utah State University, Logan, UT               Prevention Plus                                      $170,000                                  Bennett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Vancouver Police Department, Vancouver, WA     Vancouver Records Management System                  $500,000  Baird                           Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Vanderburgh County Commissioners, Evansville,  Civic Center Complex Security Improvements           $200,000  Ellsworth                       Lugar
                               IN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Ventura County District Attorney, Ventura, CA  DNA Cold Case Prosecution Unit                       $570,000  Gallegly
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Ventura County Sheriff, Ventura, CA            Regional Gang Unit--Forensic Scientists               $80,000  Gallegly; Capps
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Vermont Department of Public Safety,           School Resource Officers                             $100,000                                  Sanders
                               Waterbury, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Vermont Department of Public Safety,           Vermont Drug Task Force                            $1,000,000                                  Leahy
                               Waterbury, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Vermont Department of States Attorneys and     Special Investigation Units                          $100,000                                  Leahy; Sanders
                               Sheriffs Association, Montpelier, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Veronica's Voice, Kansas City, KS              Kansas Anti-Trafficking Coalition                    $300,000                                  Brownback
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Village of Southern View, Springfield, IL      Southern View Police Training and Equipment          $100,000  Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Voorhees College, Denmark, SC                  Domestic Violence Against Women                      $250,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wake Technical Community College, Raleigh, NC  Public Safety for Growing Region                     $300,000  Price (NC); Etheridge; Miller   Hagan
                                                                                                                                             (NC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Washington County Youth Service Bureau,        Return House Transitional Living Program             $200,000                                  Leahy
                               Montpelier, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Washington County, Hillsboro, OR               Drug Court Program                                   $300,000  Wu                              Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Washington State University, Pullman, WA       Washington State University Center for the           $500,000  McMorris Rodgers                Cantwell
                                                                              Study of Addiction: Methamphetamine,
                                                                              Prescription, and Other Drugs of Abuse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Washoe County Senior Services, Carson City,    Nevada Rural Counties RSVP Program                    $75,000                                  Reid
                               NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wayne County Prosecutor, Detroit, MI           The Wayne County Mortgage Fraud Team                 $250,000  Dingell                         Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wayne County Prosecutor's Office, Detroit, MI  Data Sharing and Criminal History Project            $500,000                                  Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wayne County Sheriff, Fairfield, IL            Equipment and Supplies for Wayne County Sheriff      $100,000  Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wayne State University, Detroit, MI            Prisoner Re-Entry Program                            $250,000  Kilpatrick (MI)                 Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Weathersfield Township Trustees, Mineral       Weathersfield OH Regional Interoperable              $495,000  Ryan (OH)
                               Ridge, OH                                      Communication Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Weld County Sheriff's Office, Weld County, CO  Northern Colorado Regional Crime Lab                 $300,000                                  Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV       Forensic Science Initiative                        $4,000,000                                  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV       West Virginia University Identification            $1,000,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Technology Research and Transition Center
                                                                              (CiTeR)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV       West Virginia University Technology Design         $3,000,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Western Connecticut State University,          Expanded Building a Bridge to Improve Student        $100,000  Murphy (CT)
                               Danbury, CT                                    Success At-Risk Youth Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Whatcom County Sheriff's Office, Bellingham,   Whatcom County 2010 Olympics Costs                   $100,000                                  Murray
                               WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Whatcom County, Bellingham, WA                 Whatcom County Rapid Border Prosecution              $500,000  Larsen (WA)                     Murray; Cantwell
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wichita State University, Wichita, KS          Kansas Regional Community Policing Institute         $650,000  Tiahrt                          Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       William S. Richardson School of Law,           Hawaii Innocence Project                             $300,000  Abercrombie                     Akaka
                               Honolulu, HI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Wilmington Police Department, Wilmington, OH   Equipment Replacement and Modernization Project      $140,000  Turner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Winona State University, Winona, MN            National Child Protection Training Center          $1,000,000  Walz                            Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Women's Center & Shelter of Greater            Domestic Violence Support Program                    $250,000  Doyle                           Specter; Casey
                               Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Women's Resource Center of Scranton,           Domestic Violence Reduction Initiative               $400,000                                  Casey
                               Scranton, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       World Vision, Philippi, WV                     World Vision Appalachia At-risk Youth                $275,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Yankton Sioux Tribe , Marty, SD                Yankton Sioux Tribe--Victim Advocate Program          $25,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Johnson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA McLean County, Bloomington, IL            Violence Prevention and Intervention Initiative      $300,000  Halvorson                       Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Greater Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH     Domestic Violence Protection Program                 $400,000                                  Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Greater Cleveland, Cleveland, OH       NIA: A Program to Promote Self-Sufficiency for       $100,000  Fudge
                                                                              At-Risk Young Women Aging Out of Foster Care
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Greater Cleveland, Cleveland, OH       Self-Sufficiency Program for At-Risk Youth           $300,000                                  Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Greater Flint, Flint, MI               Partners in Transition Program for At-Risk           $850,000  Kildee                          Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Young Women
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Greater Toledo, Toledo, OH             Program for At-Risk Youth                            $500,000  Kaptur                          Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Madison, Madison, WI                   Community of Opportunity At-Risk Youth               $150,000  Baldwin
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA of Silicon Valley, San Jose, CA           YWCA Rape Crisis Center                              $200,000  Eshoo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCA Silicon Valley, San Jose, CA              Human Trafficking Victim Support Center              $450,000  Honda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       YWCAs of Hawaii and Maui Counties, Hilo and    Sexual Assault & Domestic Violence Response          $400,000                                  Akaka
                               Lihue, HI                                      Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Zero to Three, Des Moines, IA                  Des Moines Court Team for Maltreated Infants         $300,000  Boswell                         Harkin; Grassley
                                                                              and Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Zero to Three, New Orleans, LA                 Orleans Parish Court Team for Maltreated             $200,000  Cao                             Landrieu
                                                                              Infants and Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-Byrne       Zero to Three, Washington, DC                  New Haven Court Team for Maltreated Infants and      $300,000  DeLauro
                                                                              Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          A Place Called Home, Los Angeles, CA           Health, Nutrition and Well-being Program             $300,000  Becerra
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          ABC Unified School District, Cerritos, CA      Hawaiian Gardens Gang Prevention/Drop Out            $100,000  Sanchez, Linda
                                                                              Intervention Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Abraham House, Bronx, NY                       Abraham House Programs for At-Risk Youth             $100,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Academy School of Careers, El Paso, TX         Project Salud                                        $100,000  Reyes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          ACCESS--Arab Community Center for Economic     ACCESS Youth Center                                  $200,000  Dingell                         Levin; Stabenow
                               and Social Services, Dearborn, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          After School Partnership of Greater New        Youthline America--Gulf Coast Pilot                  $200,000                                  Landrieu
                               Orleans, New Orleans, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          After-School Corporation, New York, NY         After School Apprenticeship Program (ASAP)           $100,000  Clarke
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Alabama Institute for Deaf and Blind,          Overcoming Communication Barriers for AIDB At-       $150,000  Aderholt                        Shelby
                               Talladega, AL                                  Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Alameda County Social Services, Oakland, CA    Family Visitation Center                             $200,000  Stark
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          All Saints Community Service and Development   Jubilee Center Children's Program                    $250,000  Sires                           Lautenberg; Menendez
                               Corporation, Hoboken, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          An Achievable Dream, Inc., Newport News, VA    An Achievable Dream Academy                          $600,000  Wittman; Scott (VA)             Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          ARISE Foundation, North Palm Beach, FL         Life-Management Skills Intervention/Re-entry         $550,000  Hastings (FL); Kosmas; Brown,   Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              Program for High Risk Youth                                    Corrine; Diaz-Balart,           Martinez
                                                                                                                                             Lincoln; Diaz-Balart, Mario;
                                                                                                                                             Klein (FL); Meek (FL); Ros-
                                                                                                                                             Lehtinen; Stearns; Wasserman
                                                                                                                                             Schultz; Wexler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Armory Track & Field Foundaiton, New York, NY  Armory Prep                                          $150,000  Rangel                          Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Art Center of the Grand Prairie, Stuttgart,    Grand Prairie Arts Initiative                        $155,000  Berry
                               AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Aztecs Rising, Los Angeles, CA                 Aztecs Rising Gang Intervention Program              $225,000  Becerra
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bardavon 1869 Opera House, Inc. (UCCC),        OJJDP In-School Residency and Community              $100,000  Hinchey
                               Poughkeepsie, NY                               Outreach Support for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Barron County Restorative Justice Inc., Rice   Anti-Truancy Initiative                              $230,000  Obey
                               Lake, WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bay County Neighborhood Resource Center/Bay    Bay County Neighborhood Resource Center              $200,000  Kildee                          Levin; Stabenow
                               Regional Medical Center, Bay City, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Beaver County Minority Coalition, Beaver       Beaver County Juvenile Justice Program               $100,000  Altmire
                               Falls, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bellows Free Academy Union High School, St.    Juvenile Justice and Teen Support and                $500,000                                  Leahy
                               Albans, VT                                     Intervention Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Berkshire South Regional Community Center,     Action Adventures Out-of-School Anti-Bullying        $135,000  Olver
                               Great Barrington, MA                           Project, Southern Berkshire County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Big Brothers Big Sisters Foundation of New     New Jersey Mentoring Initiative                      $400,000  LoBiondo; Pallone; Payne;       Lautenberg; Menendez
                               Jersey, Parsippany, NJ                                                                                        Sires
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Big Brothers Big Sisters of Will and Grundy    Expansion of One to One Mentoring Services for       $185,000  Halvorson
                               County, Joliet, IL                             At-Risk Children in Will and Grundy Counties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Big Brothers of Rhode Island, East             Mentorship Program for At-Risk Children              $100,000  Kennedy                         Reed; Whitehouse
                               Providence, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bolder Options, Minneapolis, MN                Bolder Options Replication                           $100,000                                  Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bolder Options, Minneapolis, MN                Bolder Options Replication and Expansion             $300,000  Ellison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bolder Options, Minneapolis, MN                Bolder Options Rochester expansion                   $100,000  Walz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boston Urban Youth Foundation, Roxbury, MA     Building Futures Educational Initiative              $250,000  Capuano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys & Girls Club of Rutherford County,        Project Learn                                        $150,000  Gordon (TN)
                               Murfreesboro, TN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys & Girls Club of West San Gabriel Valley,  Life Skills Development Program for At-risk           $75,000  Schiff
                               Monterey Park, CA                              Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys and Girls Club of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, SD  Boys and Girls Club of Aberdeen                      $200,000                                  Johnson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys and Girls Club of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI    Rural Youth Crime Prevention Program               $2,500,000                                  Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys and Girls Club of Marty, Marty, SD        Boys and Girls Club of Marty                         $425,000                                  Johnson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys and Girls Club of Worcester, MA,          Gang Prevention Through Targeted Outreach            $350,000  McGovern
                               Worcester, MA                                  Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys Town New York, New York City, NY          Expansion of Boys Town New York City Projects        $100,000  Engel; Towns                    Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Boys Town, Louisiana, New Orleans, LA          Expansion of Boys Town Louisiana Projects            $147,000  Scalise; Cao; Melancon          Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Brick Township Police Athletic League, Brick,  Brick PAL After-School and Kids Camp Program         $250,000  Smith (NJ)                      Lautenberg; Menendez
                               NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          BRIDGES USA, Memphis, TN                       Bridge Builders: Youth Leadership for Community      $500,000                                  Alexander
                                                                              Change
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bronx Cluster of Settlement Houses, Bronx, NY  Bronx Cluster Youth Development                      $350,000  Engel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bronx Comunity Pride Center, Bronx, NY         BCPC: Youth Academic Programming                     $200,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Bronx Council on the Arts, Inc., Bronx, NY     BCA Bronx WritersCorps: Youth Development/           $150,000  Serrano
                                                                              Delinquency Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Brooklyn Academy of Music, Brooklyn, NY        BAM Brooklyn Youth Initiatives                       $200,000  Clarke; Towns
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Brown Memorial Baptist Church, Brooklyn, NY    MLK Strivers After School Program                    $150,000  Towns
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Building Toward Wellness Community Coalition   Positive Steps After School Program                   $75,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Inc., Columbus, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Cabrini College, Wayne, PA                     Fostering Community Partnerships for Justice:        $100,000  Sestak; Gerlach
                                                                              Domestic Violence Education for Pre-Service
                                                                              and Practicing Professionals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation, Baltimore, MD      Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation At-Risk Youth           $1,000,000                                  Mikulski
                                                                              Mentoring Programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Calhoun County Family Connection, Edison, GA   Youth-Senior Partnership Program                      $75,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          CAPPA, Inc. (Community Alliance for            CAPPA Youth Intervention and Development             $350,000  Carney
                               Progressive Positive Action), Williamsport,    Project: Creating Solutions
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          CASA serving Lancaster, Monterey Park, CA      Court Appointed Special Advocates Program            $300,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Centinela Youth Services, Inc, Hawthorne, CA   Parent Efficacy Program                              $200,000  Waters
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chabad of San Jose, Los Gatos, CA              Prevention, Resource, Information and Drug           $200,000  Honda
                                                                              Education Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chabad of the Valley, Tarzana, CA              Prevention, Resource, Information and Drug           $100,000  Sherman
                                                                              Education (PRIDE) Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chamber Education Foundation/Rhode Island      Rhode Island Mentoring Partnership                   $400,000  Kennedy; Langevin               Reed; Whitehouse
                               Mentoring Partnership, Warwick, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chapel Hill Missionary Baptist Church,         Chapel Hill Children and Youth Art Center            $500,000  Kilpatrick (MI)
                               Detroit, MI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Cheyenne River Youth Project, Eagle Butte, SD  Cheyenne River Youth Project                         $200,000                                  Johnson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chicago Jesuit Academy, Chicago, IL            After-School Enrichment Program                      $400,000                                  Durbin; Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Childhelp Michigan, Southfield, MI             Child Abuse Intervention and Treatment,              $100,000  Peters                          Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              Southeast Michigan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Childhelp of East Tennessee, Knoxville, TN     Child Abuse Treatment in Knox County                 $250,000  Duncan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          ChildHelp River Bridge Center, Glenwood        Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment in              $300,000  Salazar
                               Springs, CO                                    Garfield, Pitkin and Rio Blanco Counties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Childhelp, Flagstaff, AZ                       Childhelp Mobile Advocacy Center of Northern         $300,000  Kirkpatrick (AZ)
                                                                              Arizona
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Childhelp, Phoenix, AZ                         Childhelp Children                                   $100,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Children & Families First Delaware,            Functional Family Therapy for At-Risk Youth (DE      $350,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                               Wilmington, DE                                 Girls Wraparound)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Chippewa Cree Tribe, Box Elder, MT             Chippewa Cree Juvenile Detention Center              $100,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Alexandria, Alexandria, VA             Youth Building Green                                 $200,000  Moran (VA)                      Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Baltimore Police Department,           Baltimore City Juvenile Screening and Diversion      $200,000  Ruppersberger                   Cardin
                               Baltimore, MD                                  Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, CT             Lighthouse After-School Program                      $350,000  Himes                           Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Brockton, Brockton, MA                 Brockton At-Risk Youth Program                       $200,000                                  Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Cairo, Cairo, GA                       Holder Park Youth Resource Center After-school        $75,000  Bishop (GA)
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Chino, Chino, CA                       Chino Experience Teen Center                         $150,000  Miller, Gary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Fairfield, Fairfield, CA               Matt Garcia PAL Center                               $160,000  Tauscher                        Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Gadsden, Gadsden, AL                   Helping Families Program                             $250,000  Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Garfield, Garfield, NJ                 School Resource Officer Program (Cops In             $100,000  Rothman (NJ)
                                                                              School)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Hartford Police Department, Hartford,  Truancy Reduction Program                            $300,000  Larson (CT)
                               CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Jacksonville, FL, Jacksonville, FL     At-Risk Youth Intervention Initiative              $1,250,000  Crenshaw; Brown, Corrine        Nelson, Bill;
                                                                                                                                                                             Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Las Cruces, Las Cruces, NM             Juvenile Justice and Law Enforcement After           $250,000  Teague                          Bingaman; Udall, T
                                                                              School Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Long Beach, Long Beach, CA             Youth Career Academy                                 $300,000  Richardson                      Feinstein
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Pasadena, Pasadena, CA                 Neighborhood Outreach Workers (NOW) Program          $250,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Philadelphia Mural Arts Program,       Restorative Justice Project                          $100,000  Fattah
                               Philadelphia, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Richmond, Richmond, VA                 Targeted High-Risk Youth Achievement Program         $200,000  Scott (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Rochester, City of Rochester, NY       After-School Jobs Program for At-Risk Youth          $200,000  Slaughter                       Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Sacramento, Sacramento, CA             City of Sacramento Attendance Centers                $280,000  Matsui
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Seattle, Seattle, WA                   Seattle Youth Violence Prevention Initiative         $300,000  McDermott                       Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Victorville, Victorville, CA           Uturn Gang Prevention Strategy                        $82,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City of Wilson, Wilson, NC                     Wilson Gang Prevention Initiative                    $100,000  Butterfield                     Burr; Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          City Parks Foundation, New York, NY            City Parks Foundation Park Activity Expansion        $200,000  McMahon; Engel; Rangel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Cleveland Avenue YMCA, Montgomery, AL          Cleveland Avenue YMCA                                $500,000  Bright                          Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Community Connections, Inc., Bluefield, WV     Southern West Virginia Community Coalition           $187,000  Rahall
                                                                              Outreach and SADD Outreach Campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Community Connections, Inc., Bluefield, WV     Youth Training Initiative                          $2,000,000                                  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Community Foundation for Greater New Haven,    Interventions for Children and Families Exposed      $500,000  DeLauro
                               New Haven, CT                                  to Violence and Trauma
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Courage to Speak Foundation, Norwalk, CT       Substance Abuse Prevention for Parents and           $500,000  Himes                           Dodd; Lieberman
                                                                              Children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA),       Court Appointed Special Advocates Recruitment        $200,000  Napolitano
                               Monterey Park, CA                              for 38th District
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Court Appointed Special Advocate, Monterey     Court Appointed Special Advocate Program for         $375,000  Roybal-Allard
                               Park, CA                                       Infants and Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Covenant House Georgia, Inc, Atlanta, GA       Covenant House Georgia Rights of Passage             $100,000  Lewis (GA)
                                                                              Transitional Living Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Covenant House of Florida, Orlando, FL         Parent Education and Health Support Program          $200,000  Grayson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Crawford Counseling and Community Learning     Parenting and Life Choices Program/Employee           $50,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Center, Roberta, GA                            Assistance Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Crossroads Programs, Willingboro, NJ           Youth Gang Prevention Program                         $50,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          D.A.R.E. New Jersey, Inc., Cranbury, NJ        Middle School Drug and Safety Prevention             $350,000  Smith (NJ); LoBiondo;           Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Project                                                        Pascrell; Payne
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch, Minot, ND         High-Risk Youth Program                              $200,000  Pomeroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Dauphin County Human Service Director,         Family Group Conferencing Community Expansion        $300,000  Holden                          Specter; Casey
                               Harrisburg, PA                                 Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Delaware Mentoring Council, Newark, DE         Mentoring Initiatives for At-Risk Children and       $750,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                                                                              Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Devereux Kids Florida, Ocala, FL               Devereux Kids Abuse and Neglect Prevention           $200,000  Stearns                         Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Devereux, King of Prussia, PA                  Program-Wide Positive Behavior Support for At-       $100,000  Sestak
                                                                              Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Dooly County Community Coalition/Family        Delinquency Prevention                                $75,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Connection, Vienna, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Dutchess Community College, Poughkeepsie, NY   At-risk Youth Education and Training Programs        $400,000  Hinchey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Eastern Connecticut State University,          Dual Enrollment Initiative for At-Risk Youth         $300,000  Courtney                        Dodd
                               Willimantic, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Economic Opportunity Council, Wyandanch, NY    Save Our Youth Violence Prevention After School      $300,000  Israel
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Eden Housing, Hayward, CA                      Digital Connectors At-Risk Youth Program             $575,000  Stark; Lee (CA); McNerney;      Boxer
                                                                              Expansion                                                      Tauscher
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Eitz Chaim, Brooklyn, NY                       Project Success                                      $100,000                                  Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          El Museo del Barrio, New York, NY              El Museo del Barrio's Bronx Educational              $100,000  Serrano
                                                                              Programs for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Emily Krzyzewski Center, Durham, NC            The Pioneer Scholars Program at the Emily            $200,000  Price (NC)
                                                                              Krzyzewski Center in Durham, North Carolina
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Enough is Enough, Great Falls, VA              Maryland Internet Safety 101: Empowering             $250,000  Bartlett; Ruppersberger;        Cardin
                                                                              Parents Program                                                Sarbanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Fairfax Childhelp Center, Fairfax, VA          Providing Specialized Care and Treatment for         $200,000  Connolly (VA)
                                                                              Child Abuse Victims
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Family Center of Columbus, Inc., Columbus, GA  Family Disintegration Prevention and Assistance      $200,000  Bishop (GA)
                                                                              Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          FC Harlem, New York, NY                        Lion Share Youth Development Program                 $100,000  Rangel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          First Gethsemane Center for Family             Reducing Barriers to Success for At-risk Youth       $100,000  Yarmuth
                               Development, Louisville, KY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Florida Venture Foundation, Miami, FL          Youth Build Development Strategies                   $400,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Focus: HOPE, Detroit, MI                       Focus: HOPE Youth Media Initiative                   $100,000  Conyers                         Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Forever Family, Fort Lauderdale, FL            Forever Family Child Safety and Adoption             $400,000  Hastings (FL); Wasserman        Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Initiative                                                     Schultz; Wexler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Forsyth County, Winston-Salem, NC              Gang and Delinquency Prevention Initiative           $450,000  Watt                            Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Fountain Avenue Community Development          After School Program                                 $100,000  Towns
                               Corporation, Brooklyn, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Four Oaks Family Services & Benton/Iowa        Benton/Iowa County After-school Program and          $100,000  Boswell
                               County Decategorization Project, Marengo, IA   Functional Family Therapy Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Friendship Circle, West Bloomfield, MI         Self-Determination Anti-Bullying in LifeTown         $150,000  Peters                          Levin; Stabenow
                                                                              (SAIL) Project--Year 2
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Gang Alternatives Program, Los Angeles, CA     Gang Alternatives Program for Southeast Los          $135,000  Sanchez, Linda
                                                                              Angeles County
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Generations Incorporated, Lindenwold, NJ       Youth Mentoring Program                              $200,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Girl Scouts of Greater Los Angeles, Arcadia,   VIVA California                                      $115,000  Becerra
                               CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Girl Scouts of Southwest Texas, San Antonio,   VIVA Texas                                           $350,000  Gonzalez; Green, Gene
                               TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Girl Scouts of the USA, New York, NY           Girl Scouts Beyond Bars                            $1,350,000  Kennedy; Abercrombie; Rush;     Mikulski
                                                                                                                                             Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          GMHC, New York City, NY                        Protecting Health and Building a Prosperous        $1,500,000  Rangel; Nadler (NY); Weiner;    Schumer
                                                                              Future for At-Risk Youth in New York City                      Towns; Clarke; Engel; Meeks
                                                                                                                                             (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Good Shepherd Services, New York, NY           Afterschool Programming for At-risk Youth            $250,000  Velazquez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Governor's Prevention Partnership, Hartford,   At-Risk Youth Prevention Initiative                  $250,000                                  Dodd; Lieberman
                               CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Governor's Prevention Partnership, Hartford,   Prevention Initiative for At-Risk Youth              $300,000  Larson (CT)
                               CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Green Bay YWCA, Green Bay, WI                  Green Bay YWCA After-School Programs                 $600,000  Kagen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Harlem RBI, Inc., New York, NY                 Youth Development through Year-Round Sports and      $100,000  Rangel                          Schumer; Gillibrand
                                                                              Teams
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hartford Behaviorial Health, Inc., Hartford,   The Stump the Violence Youth Leadership              $300,000  Larson (CT)
                               CT                                             Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Highland Park Community Development            Values Education Through Cooperative Activities      $300,000  Towns
                               Corporation, Brooklyn, NY                      Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hillside Family of Agencies, Greenbelt, MD     Hillside Family of Agencies, Hillside Work-          $100,000  Edwards (MD)
                                                                              Scholarship Connection
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hillside Family of Agencies, Hillside Work-    Hillside Work-Scholarship Connection (HW-SC)         $300,000  Maffei                          Schumer; Gillibrand
                               Scholarship Connection, Syracuse, NY           Syracuse Program Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hillside Family of Agencies, Rochester, NY     Workforce Development Initiative for Youth           $100,000  Arcuri
                                                                              Aging-Out of Foster Care
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hollenbeck Police Activities League, Los       Hollenbeck PAL-Youth Crime Prevention                $250,000  Roybal-Allard
                               Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Holy Cross Children's Services, Clinton, MI    Edward J. Overstreet Center for Excellence in        $225,000  Kilpatrick (MI); Levin
                                                                              Children's Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Hoops Express, Inc., Newburgh, NY              Helping Our People Excel Project                     $250,000  Hinchey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          HoustonWorks USA, Houston, TX                  The Juvenile Justice Initiative                      $400,000  Green, Gene; Jackson-Lee (TX);
                                                                                                                                             Green, Al
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Human Development Commission, Caro, MI         Generations                                          $100,000  Kildee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Improved Solutions for Urban Systems (ISUS),   Improved Solutions for Urban Systems--21st           $860,000  Turner
                               Dayton, OH                                     Century Jobs for Disengaged Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          i-SAFE, Inc., Carlsbad, CA                     i-SAFE e-Safety Education and Outreach               $630,000  Shimkus; Kilroy; Berkley;
                                                                              Initiative                                                     Grijalva; Kennedy; Pomeroy;
                                                                                                                                             Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Jackson County Court Appointed Special         Legal Child Advocate Program                         $100,000  Cleaver
                               Advocates, Kansas City, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Jobs for Delaware Graduates, Dover, DE         Jobs for Delaware Graduates, Expand Available      $1,000,000  Castle                          Carper; Kaufman
                                                                              Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Jobs for Ohio, Columbus, OH                    Jobs for Ohio's Graduates Dropout Prevention         $200,000  Sutton
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Juvenile Assessment and Reporting Center       Prevention and Intervention Program                  $265,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               (JARC), Las Cruces, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Juvenile Justice Center, Little Rock, AR       Child Maltreatment and Delinquency Project           $200,000  Snyder
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, MD       Kennedy Krieger Institute Juvenile Delinquency       $500,000  Kratovil                        Mikulski
                                                                              Prevention Program at Fort Meade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Kentler International Drawing Space Inc.,      K.I.D.S. Art Education Program                       $100,000  Velazquez
                               Brooklyn, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Kidsbridge, Trenton, NJ                        Kidsbridge Life Skills, Gang Resistance and           $90,000  Smith (NJ)
                                                                              Violence Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          KidsPeace, Altamonte Springs, FL               KidsPeace Florida Therapeutic Foster Care            $200,000  Mica                            Nelson, Bill
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          KidsPeace, Clifton, NJ                         KidsPeace Cumberland County Therapeutic Foster       $250,000                                  Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                              Care Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          KidsPeace, West Seneca, NY                     KidsPeace Ithaca Therapeutic Foster Care             $250,000  Hinchey
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          KidsVoice, Pittsburgh, PA                      Child Advocacy Program                               $500,000  Murphy, Tim; Doyle              Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Klingberg Family Centers, Hartford, CT         Klingberg Child Abuse Treament Services              $400,000  Larson (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          LA County--Deparment of Children and Family    Independent Living Program, San Gabriel Valley       $250,000  Schiff
                               Services, Los Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          LACER, Los Angeles, CA                         At the Park After Dark                                $75,000  Becerra
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Latin American Youth Center, Washington, DC,   Maryland Multicultural Youth Centers                 $750,000  Van Hollen                      Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Laughlin Community Center, Inc., Wheeling, WV  Laughlin Community Center Science and                 $70,000  Mollohan
                                                                              Mathematics Excellence Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Logan City School District, Logan, UT          School-Based Language Learning Centers for At-       $250,000  Bishop (UT)                     Hatch
                                                                              Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Long Beach Community College District, Long    Business Training for At-Risk Youth in Watts-        $100,000  Sanchez, Linda
                               Beach, CA                                      Willowbrook
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, Lower Brule, SD       Lower Brule Sioux Tribe Boys and Girls Club          $300,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          M.L. Wilson Boys & Girls Club of Harlem, New   Career Launch/Club Service                           $100,000  Rangel
                               York, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Main Line Chinese Culture Center, Inc.         Preparing Philadelphia                               $100,000  Brady (PA)
                               (MLCCC), Wynnewood, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Martin Luther King Jr. Freedom Center,         Youth Non-Violent Leadership Program                 $250,000  Lee (CA)
                               Oakland, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center, Inc.,   Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center: Ongoing       $250,000  Serrano
                               Bronx, NY                                      Programs for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Maryland Association of Youth Services         Maryland Association of Youth Services Bureaus     $1,000,000  Ruppersberger; Sarbanes         Mikulski
                               Bureaus, Greenbelt, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Maryland Department of Juvenile Services,      Maryland Civic Justice Corps                         $200,000  Sarbanes; Cummings
                               Baltimore, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Maui Economic Opportunity, Wailuku, HI         Ka Wili Pu Project                                   $350,000  Hirono                          Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Men Engaged in Nonviolence, Inc, Taos, NM      Men Engaged in Nonviolence Activities Program         $24,000  Lujan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Middlecreek Area Community Center, Beaver      Linkages Mentoring Program and Youth Aid Panel       $100,000  Carney
                               Springs, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Miller County New Vision Coalition, Inc.,      Too Good for Drugs After-School Program               $80,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Colquitt, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Milwaukee Public Schools, Milwaukee, WI        Milwaukee Summer Stars                               $200,000                                  Kohl
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Mission Kids Child Advocacy Center,            Child Abuse and Advocacy Program                      $50,000  Schwartz                        Specter
                               Norristown, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Mobius, Inc., Burlington, VT                   Mentoring Collaborative                              $500,000                                  Leahy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Montana Second Judicial District--Judicial     Butte--Silver Bow Youth Project                      $175,000                                  Tester; Baucus
                               Probation Office, Butte, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Montana Youth and District Court Services      MONTS-Juvenile Justice System                        $600,000  Rehberg
                               Bureau, Helena, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center, New      Violence and Risky Behaviors Prevention              $100,000  Rangel
                               York, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Museum of the City of New York, New York, NY   Out of School Time                                   $350,000  Maloney; Rangel
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          My Turn Inc., Brockton, MA                     Out-of-School Youth Intervention Program             $200,000  McGovern                        Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          National Center for Fathering, Shawnee         Watch D.O.G.S (Dads of Great Students)               $900,000                                  Brownback
                               Mission, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          National Council of Juvenile and Family Court  Judicial Training, Research & Technical              $600,000  Heller; Honda; Berkley;         Leahy; Bennett;
                               Judges, Reno, NV                               Assistance                                                     Conyers; DeLauro; Grijalva;     Landrieu; Reid;
                                                                                                                                             McDermott                       Hatch; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          National Council on Crime and Delinquency      Juvenile Delinquency Prevention Center for           $100,000  Lee (CA)
                               (NCCD), Oakland, CA                            Asian Pacific Islander Youth in Oakland
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          New Freedom Theater, Philadelphia, PA          Performing Arts Training Program (PATP)              $100,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          New Mexico Children Youth and Family           Juvenile Justice Pilot Project                       $250,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               Services, Santa Fe, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          New Mexico Sheriff and Police Athletic         Anti-Gang Initiative and the Be a Fit Kid            $275,000  Lujan                           Bingaman; Udall, T.
                               League, Albuquerque, NM                        Health Mentorship Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          New York City Outward Bound Center, Inc.,      At-Risk Students Program                             $200,000  Maloney                         Schumer
                               Long Island City, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          New York Junior Tennis League, Woodside, NY    Tennis, Sports, Literacy, and Education              $100,000  Clarke
                                                                              Programs for High Risk New York City Young
                                                                              People from Low-Income Families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          North Alabama Child Maltreatment               National Children's Advocacy Center                  $350,000  Griffith
                               Collaborative, Huntsville, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          North Carolina Mentoring Partnership,          North Carolina Mentoring Partnership: Mentoring      $400,000  Price (NC); Watt
                               Raleigh, NC                                    Programs for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          North East Florida Education Consortium,       North East Florida Education Consortium Dropout      $450,000  Boyd                            Nelson, Bill
                               Palatka, FL                                    Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Northern Forest Canoe Trail, Waitsfield, VT    Northern Forest Explorers Outdoor Program            $300,000  Pingree (ME); Welch; Arcuri;
                                                                                                                                             McHugh
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy           Sistas and Brothas (S&B) United Youth                $100,000  Serrano
                               Coalition, Bronx, NY                           Leadership Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ocean Tides School, Narragansett, RI           School-to-Work Training for At-Risk Youths           $500,000  Langevin                        Reed; Whitehouse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Office of the Attorney General of Virginia,    Gang Prevention Coordination Program                 $100,000  Scott (VA)
                               Richmond, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ogden City School District, Ogden, UT          Ogden Juvenile Delinquency Prevention                $375,000  Bishop (UT)                     Hatch
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ohel Children, New York, NY                    Ohel At-Risk Youth and Child Abuse Prevention        $250,000  Rangel
                                                                              program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ohel Children's Home & Family Services,        At-Risk Youth and Child Abuse Prevention             $200,000  Rothman (NJ)                    Lautenberg; Menendez
                               Teaneck, NJ                                    Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ohel Childrens Home and Family Services,       At Risk Youth and Child Abuse Prevention             $350,000  Velazquez; Nadler (NY);         Gillibrand
                               Brooklyn, NY                                   Program                                                        Clarke; Engel; McCarthy (NY);
                                                                                                                                             Weiner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ohel Children's Home and Family Services,      At Risk Youth and Child Abuse Prevention             $200,000  Klein (FL); Ros-Lehtinen;       Nelson, Bill
                               Miami Beach, FL                                Program                                                        Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ohio Assn of Police Athletic/Activities        Ohio Police Assn of Police Athletic/Activities       $200,000  Ryan (OH)
                               League, Euclid, OH                             League Cops and Kids
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Old Bethel UMC, Charleston, SC                 Bethel Community Outreach Program                    $300,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Olive Crest--Pacific Northwest, Tacoma, WA     Push to Permanence Project                           $500,000  Dicks                           Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Olive Crest Treatment Centers, Santa Ana, CA   Olive Crest Independent Living Skills for At-        $500,000  Calvert; Bono Mack; Sanchez,
                                                                              Risk Youth                                                     Loretta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Operation QT, Inc., Paradise Valley, AZ        Operation Quality Time After School Program          $300,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Orange Police Department, Orange, MA           Implementation of the Training Active                $620,000  Olver
                                                                              Bystanders Program and Enhancing Community
                                                                              Policing, Athol, Orange, Fitchburg,
                                                                              Greenfield, Holyoke and Pittsfield, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Orangeburg Consolidated School District Five,  Alternative Youth Education Program                  $500,000  Clyburn
                               Orangeburg, SC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Orlando Health, Orlando, FL                    Orange County Children's Advocacy Center             $250,000  Grayson; Kosmas; Brown,         Nelson, Bill;
                                                                              Programs                                                       Corrine                         Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Outright Vermont, Burlington, VT               Rural Vermont Bullying Initiative                    $100,000  Welch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Overtown Youth Center, Inc., Miami, FL         At Risk Youth Program                                $100,000  Meek (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          PA Chapter Children's Advocacy Centers and     Internet Child Safety Education                      $200,000                                  Casey
                               Multidisciplinary Teams, Erie, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          PACE Center for Girls, Inc., Jacksonville, FL  PACEWorks!                                           $400,000  Wasserman Schultz; Brown,
                                                                                                                                             Corrine; Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pasadena Symphony Association, Pasadena, CA    Music Access and Education for At-Risk Youth          $75,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Patrick Henry Community College,               At Risk Youth Program                                $300,000  Perriello
                               Martinsville, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pawtucket Police Department, Pawtucket, RI     Pawtucket At-risk Youth Program                      $100,000  Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          PAX/Real Solutions to Gun Violence, New York   Speak Up Hotline and Awareness Campaign Access       $850,000                                  Gillibrand
                               City, NY                                       Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pee Dee Boys and Girls Club, Florence, SC      At-risk Youth Intervention                           $400,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pemi Youth Center, Plymouth, NH                Pemi Youth Center After School Program               $125,000  Hodes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic        Use of Technology to Enhance the Capacity of         $150,000                                  Specter; Casey
                               Violence, Harrisburg, PA                       Local Community-Based Domestic Violence
                                                                              Programs to Provide Services and Improve
                                                                              Outcomes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          PEOPLE TO PEOPLE, Newport News, VA             PEOPLE TO PEOPLE Neighborhood Center Pilot           $200,000  Scott (VA)
                                                                              Project, Newport News, Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Philadelphia Teen Court, Philadelphia, PA      Teen Court Program                                   $100,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Phoenix Academy of Orange County, Santa Ana,   Strengthening Family and Substance Abuse             $230,000  Sanchez, Loretta
                               CA                                             Services for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Phoenix Academy, Lake View Terrace, CA         Strengthening Family and Mental Health Services      $800,000  Sherman; Harman; Berman;
                                                                              for Underserved Youth in Los Angeles County                    Roybal-Allard
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pinellas County Board of County                Pinellas County At-Risk Youth Diversion              $300,000  Young (FL); Castor (FL)
                               Commissioners, Clearwater, FL                  Prevention Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          POINT Community Development Corporation,       The POINT Community Development                      $150,000  Serrano
                               Bronx, NY                                      Corporation:Youth Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Police Athletic League, Norristown, PA         Norristown Youth Program Support                      $90,000  Gerlach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Police Athletic League, Toledo, OH             Police Athletic League Youth Center                  $300,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Polk County Sheriff, Bartow, FL                Polk County Gang Prevention Initiative               $250,000  Putnam
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Project Avary (Alternative Ventures to At-     Building Skills and Capacity of Children of          $125,000  Pelosi; Woolsey
                               Risk Youth), Novato, CA                        Prisoners
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Project Goal, Providence, RI                   Champions of Change/Project Goal                     $100,000  Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Project Rebound, Inc., Columbus, GA            Juvenile Diversion Program                           $250,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Pulaski County Youth Services, Little Rock,    Youth Initiative to Encourage Learning and           $350,000  Snyder
                               AR                                             Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Ramsey County Community Corrections, St.       Juvenile Detention Alternatives Initiative           $560,000  McCollum                        Klobuchar
                               Paul, MN                                       (JDAI)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Reconcile New Orleans, Inc., New Orleans, LA   Reconcile New Orleans Workforce Development          $300,000                                  Landrieu
                                                                              Training Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Restoration Ministries, Harvey, IL             Project Intercept                                    $200,000  Jackson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Resurrection Health Care, Broadview, IL        Multi-Systemic Therapy Program                       $210,000  Gutierrez                       Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Richmond Black Firefighters Association,       Richmond Youth Academy                               $250,000  Miller, George
                               Richmond, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Richmond Police Activities League, Richmond,   Changing Habits, Attitudes & Mind Program            $390,000  Miller, George
                               CA                                             (CHAMP)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Rocking the Boat, Inc., Bronx, NY              RTB Education Programs for At-Risk Youth             $250,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Safe Harbor Child Advocacy Center, Inc.,       Child Abuse Victim Services                          $195,000  Baldwin
                               Madison, WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA    Institute for Violence Research and Prevention       $200,000  Brady (PA); Gerlach             Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          San Fernando Valley Partnership, Inc., San     Chicas in Control and Succeeding                     $450,000  Berman
                               Fernando, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Santa Clara County of Education, San Jose, CA  Information Network for Student Success              $400,000  Honda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Save Our Future, Inc, Los Angeles, CA          Save Our Future/Mothers On the March After-          $300,000  Watson
                                                                              School Program, Intervention & Enrichment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Save the Children, Washington, DC              Juvenile Delinquency Prevention Program              $300,000                                  Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Save the Children, Westport, CT                Arkansas Rural Literacy Program                      $300,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          School Biz Match, Inc., Washington, DC         K-12 Community-based Partnership Pilot Program       $500,000  Norton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          School District of Palm Beach County, West     Career Education for At-risk and Adjudicated         $200,000  Wexler; Hastings (FL)           Nelson, Bill
                               Palm Beach, FL                                 Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Sea Research Foundation, Mystic, CT            Immersion Presents After-School Program              $300,000  Courtney; DeLauro               Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          SGA Youth and Family Services, Chicago, IL     Juvenile Justice Program                             $225,000  Gutierrez                       Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center, East     Youth Action After School Program                    $200,000  Ackerman
                               Hills, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Siena College, Loudonville, NY                 Siena College At-Risk Youth Service Initiative       $100,000  Tonko                           Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Soundview Community in Action, Bronx, NY       Outreach Programs for At-Risk Youth                  $300,000  Crowley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          South Central Community Services, Inc.,        SCCS, Inc. At-Risk Youth program                     $300,000  Rush
                               Chicago, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Southwest Georgia Humanitarian Rural           Rural Outreach Program                                $75,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Outreach, Bainbridge, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Sports Foundation, Inc., Bronx, NY             SFI Anti-Drug Programs for At-risk Youth,            $125,000  Serrano
                                                                              Bronx, New York
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, Fort Yates, ND      Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Child Protection           $350,000  Herseth Sandlin                 Johnson; Thune
                                                                              Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Starfinder Foundation, Philadelphia, PA        Youth Soccer Gang Prevention Initiative              $100,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Starr Commonwealth--Van Wert, Van Wert, OH     Expansion of the Adolescent Delinqency Program       $500,000  Latta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Starr Commonwealth Battle Creek Campus,        Expansion of Starr Commonwealth Battle Creek         $300,000  Schauer
                               Battle Creek, MI                               Parent-Referred Day Treatment Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Starr Commonwealth, Columbus, OH               Structured Therapeutic Living Program                $200,000                                  Brown
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Starr Commonwealth, Detroit, MI                Bridges to Responsible Adulthood                     $200,000  Conyers; Kilpatrick (MI)        Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          State of Maryland, Baltimore, MD               Gang Prevention and Intervention Services            $500,000  Ruppersberger; Kratovil         Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Suffolk University, Boston, MA                 Juvenile Justice Center at Suffolk University        $250,000  Lynch                           Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Superior Court of California, County of Santa  Santa Clara County Delinquency Model Court           $170,000  Honda
                               Clara, San Jose, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Taylor County Family Matters Collaborative,    Taylor County After-School Program                   $145,000  Bishop (GA)
                               Butler, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Team Focus, Inc., Mobile, AL                   Birmingham Mentoring and Education Program           $500,000  Bonner; Bachus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Team Focus, Mobile, AL                         Texas Youth Mentoring Program                        $100,000                                  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Texas A&M Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX   Texas A&M Adjudicated Youth Program                  $250,000  Ortiz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          The Manor, Jonesville, MI                      Children's Safety and Security Updates Project       $200,000  Schauer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Town of Riverhead, Riverhead, NY               Anti-gang Initiative for At-risk Age Groups          $100,000  Bishop (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Truancy Intervention Project Georgia, Inc.,    Truancy Intervention Project                         $150,000                                  Isakson
                               Atlanta, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Turning the Hearts Center, Chula Vista, CA     Turning the Hearts Center Project                    $100,000  Filner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          U.S. Soccer Foundation, Washington, DC         Champions of Change: Youth Soccer Gang               $200,000  Roybal-Allard
                                                                              Prevention Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Uhlich Children, Chicago, IL                   Violence Prevention and Youth Leadership             $100,000  Quigley
                                                                              Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          United Methodist Children, Selma, AL           Security and IT Improvements                         $150,000  Bachus; Aderholt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          United Way for Southeastern Michigan,          United Way Juvenile Delinquency Prevention           $250,000  Levin; Dingell; Peters          Levin; Stabenow
                               Detroit, MI                                    Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          United Way of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh,    Youth Futures Commission                             $275,000  Doyle
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          United Way of North Central Massachusetts,     Engaging Youth for Success                           $350,000  Olver
                               Fitchburg, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder,    Colorado Schools Safety Program                      $500,000  Polis                           Bennet
                               CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          University of Mobile, Mobile, AL               University of Mobile, AL RamKids Program             $850,000  Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          University of Montana, Missoula, MT            Montana Safe Schools                                 $250,000  Rehberg                         Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Urban Dreams, Des Moines, IA                   Urban Children are Really Essential (U-CARE)         $200,000  Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          USA Swimming Foundation, Berkeley Heights, NJ  New Jersey Regional Youth Development Program        $400,000  Pallone; Payne; Rothman (NJ);   Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                                                                                             Sires
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Valley Youth House Committee, Inc.,            Adventure Challenge Education for Gang               $200,000  Dent                            Specter
                               Allentown, PA                                  Prevention (ACE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Vermont Department of Children and Families,   At-Risk Youth Assistance Programs                    $500,000                                  Sanders
                               Waterbury, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Vermont Department of Education, Montpelier,   Extended Education Programming at Schools            $500,000                                  Sanders
                               VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Virginia Community College System (VCCS),      Great Expectations Program for Virginias Foster      $350,000                                  Webb; Warner
                               Richmond, VA                                   Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Virginia Mentoring Partnership, Richmond, VA   Mentoring Programs for At-Risk Youth                 $200,000  Moran (VA); Nye                 Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Washington State Mentors, Issaquah, WA         Mentoring Initiative for At-Risk Youth               $300,000  Inslee; McDermott               Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Watson Children's Shelter, Missoula, MT        Western Montana Children's Safety Initiative         $500,000  Rehberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Wayne County Department of Children and        Wayne County, Michigan Juvenile Mentoring            $400,000  Conyers; Dingell                Levin; Stabenow
                               Family Services, Detroit, MI                   Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Weld County Juvenile Assessment Center,        Truancy Response and Intervention Program            $245,000  Markey (CO)
                               Greeley, CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Wesley Biblical Seminary, Jackson, MS          Cross-Roads Multi-Cultural Center                    $250,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Widener University, Chester, PA                Widener University Delaware County Violence          $200,000  Brady (PA)                      Specter
                                                                              Prevention Collaborative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Wisconsin Office of Justice Assistance,        WI Office of Justice Assistance Reducing           $1,000,000                                  Kohl
                               Madison, WI                                    Truancy through Early Intervention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          WNY Americorps, West Seneca, NY                WNY Americorps for Programs to Assist At-Risk        $200,000  Higgins
                                                                              Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Women's Sports Foundation, Atlanta, GA         GoGirlGo! Atlanta Initiative                         $100,000  Lewis (GA)                      Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Womens Sports Foundation, New York City, NY    GoGirlGo! New York City Initiative                   $250,000  Nadler (NY)                     Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Woodstock Film Festival, inc (WFF),            Woodstock Film Festival Youth Initiative /            $30,000  Hinchey
                               Woodstock, NY                                  Youth at Risk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Yakima County, Yakima, WA                      Implementation of OJJDP Best Practices Gang          $500,000  Hastings (WA)                   Murray; Cantwell
                                                                              Model
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YMCA of Burbank, Burbank, CA                   Youth Development and Government Program              $45,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          York County Children's Advocacy Center, York,  SAFE Team                                             $60,000  Platts
                               PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Youth Advocate Program, Farmington, NM         Gang Prevention Program                              $200,000                                  Bingaman; Udall, T.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Youth Advocate Programs, Inc. (YAP),           South Carolina Gang Initiative                       $250,000  Brown (SC)
                               Charleston, SC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Youth and Tennis, Inc., Jamaica, NY            Juvenile Deliquency Prevention                       $150,000  Meeks (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice,        Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice:              $250,000  Serrano
                               Bronx, NY                                      Education Programs for At-Risk Youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YWCA Greater Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA      Project Empowerment                                  $100,000  Watson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YWCA Lake County, Waukegan, IL                 Minority Family Strengthening Initiative             $375,000                                  Durbin; Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YWCA of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN         Out of School Time Project for At-Risk Youth         $100,000  Carson (IN)                     Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YWCA of St. Joseph County, South Bend, IN      Getting Ahead Project for Domestic Violence          $200,000                                  Lugar
                                                                              Survivors and Their Families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          YWCA Pasadena, Pasadena, CA                    Development and Education Program for At-risk         $75,000  Schiff
                                                                              Girls
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Zelpha's Cultural Development Corp., Inc.,     University of Alabama After-School Delinquency       $150,000                                  Shelby
                               Tuscaloosa, AL                                 Prevention Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Zero to Three, Cherokee, NC                    Cherokee Court Team for Maltreated Infants and       $100,000  Shuler
                                                                              Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Zero to Three, Douglasville, GA                Zero to Three: Douglas County Court Team for         $100,000  Scott (GA)                      Chambliss; Isakson
                                                                              Maltreated Infants and Toddlers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOJ           OJP-JJ          Zero to Three, Hattiesburg, MS                 Court Teams for Maltreated Infants and Toddlers      $300,000  Taylor                          Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Alabama A&M University Research Institute,     High Temperature Materials Research and              $500,000  Griffith                        Shelby
                               Normal, AL                                     Development for Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV)
                                                                              and Crew Launch Vehicle (CLV) Initiatives
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, TN  Solar Energy Laser Physics Program                   $500,000  Tanner                          Alexander
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Aviation Maintenance Technology Center,        Flight Research Training Center                      $300,000  Teague                          Udall, T
                               Roswell, NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership,         Bay Area Houston SATOP                             $1,000,000  Paul                            Cornyn
                               Houston, TX
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX        Center for Space Medicine                            $750,000                                  Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Baylor University, Waco, TX                    Advanced Composite Materials Research                $400,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Burlington Community and Economic Development  Burlington Aviation Technology Center              $1,500,000                                  Leahy
                               Office, Burlington, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             CORE Philly, Philadelphia, PA                  CORE Philly Scholarship Program                    $1,000,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Dillard University, New Orleans, LA            The Dillard University Eighth Grade Initiative       $300,000  Cao                             Landrieu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Drew University, Madison, NJ                   Drew University Environmental Science              $1,000,000  Frelinghuysen
                                                                              Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             East Stroudsburg University, East              Marine Science Consortium Student-Faculty            $450,000  Kanjorski                       Specter
                               Stroudsburg, PA                                Research Collaborative with NASA Goddard
                                                                              Wallops Flight Facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Educational Advancement Alliance (EAA),        Math Science and Technology (MST) Program          $1,000,000  Fattah
                               Philadelphia, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Embry Riddle Aeronautical University Prescott  NASA Educator Resource Center                        $200,000  Kirkpatrick (AZ)
                               Campus, Prescott, AZ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             FOTO, Los Angeles, CA                          Science Education Programming                        $200,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Foundation for Community Empowerment, Inc.,    Dallas Achieves -- Transforming Public               $500,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice
                               Dallas, TX                                     Education in Dallas, Texas, Through Math,
                                                                              Science and Technology Initiatives
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Fulton-Montgomery Community College,           Center for Engineering and Technology--Phase         $300,000  Tonko                           Gillibrand
                               Johnstown, NY                                  Two
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Imiloa Astronomy Center, Hilo, HI              Imiloa Astronomy Center                            $2,500,000  Hirono                          Inouye; Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX              Constellation Program Data Storage Equipment         $250,000                                  Hutchison
                                                                              and Systems
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA               Nanomaterials Research                               $250,000  Dent                            Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma     Space Radiation Health Research Program            $2,800,000  Lewis (CA)
                               Linda, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Advanced Algorithm, Integration, and Maturation    $1,000,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Development of Characterization Techniques for     $1,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Advanced High Temperature Materials in Space
                                                                              Launch Applications
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Increasing K-16 Genetics and Biotechnology         $1,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Product Lifecycle Management and Advanced          $1,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Modeling and Simulation Methods
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Radically Segmented Launch Vehicle (RSLV) LOX/     $1,000,000                                  Kohl
                                                                              Methane Technology Maturation Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Robotic Lander Multi-Propellant Diagnostic Test    $1,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Bed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL   Space Nuclear Power Systems Research &             $1,000,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Morgan State University, University of         Chesapeake Information Based Aeronautics           $3,000,000  Cummings; Kratovil              Mikulski; Cardin
                               Maryland Eastern Shore, and Bowie State        Consortium (CIBAC)
                               University, Baltimore, Princess Anne and
                               Bowie, MD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             MTSU, Murfreesboro, TN                         Aviation Safety and Human Factors Research           $700,000  Gordon (TN)
                                                                              Using Emerging Technologies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             National Institute for Aviation Research,      National Center for Advanced Materials               $600,000                                  Brownback; Roberts
                               Wichita, KS                                    Performance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             National Youth Science Foundation,             Youth Science Discovery Experience and science       $400,000  Mollohan
                               Charleston, WV                                 center curriculum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM    Science, Engineering, Math, and Aerospace            $200,000  Teague                          Bingaman; Udall, T.
                                                                              Academy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Northern Kentucky University Foundation,       Sky Dome: Strengthening Science Achievement in       $200,000                                  Bunning
                               Highland Heights, KY                           Grades 4 until 12 through Immersive Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Rocky Mountain College, Billings, MT           Bair Science Center                                  $125,000                                  Tester; Baucus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             ScienceSouth, Florence, SC                     Innovative Science Learning Center                   $500,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Sci-Port: Louisiana's Science Center,          Sci-Port: Renewing Science Education in the          $300,000                                  Landrieu
                               Shreveport, LA                                 South
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Southeast Missouri State University, Cape      Missouri NASA Math, Science and Technology           $500,000                                  Bond
                               Girardeau, MO                                  Education Enhancement Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Space Dynamics Laboratory, Logan, UT           Technical Support of Satelite Sensor                 $400,000                                  Bennett
                                                                              Calibration for the Global Climate Observing
                                                                              System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Space Florida, Kennedy Space Center, FL        Launch Complexes 36 and 46                         $1,100,000                                  Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Space Florida, Kennedy Space Center, FL        Thermal Vacuum Chamber                               $400,000                                  Nelson, Bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             St. Louis Community College, St. Louis, MO     St. Louis Community College BioBench and             $600,000                                  Bond
                                                                              Training Facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Teach for America, New York, NY                Teach for America STEM Activities                  $3,000,000                                  Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Technological Research And Development         Space Alliance Technology Outreach Program           $100,000  Lujan                           Nelson, Bill;
                               Authority, Melbourne, FL                                                                                                                      Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Tennessee Tech, Cookeville, TN                 Center for Teaching & Learning in Science,           $400,000  Gordon (TN)
                                                                              Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Texas A&M University, College Station, TX      Advanced robotics for Lunar and Martian              $750,000  Edwards (TX)                    Hutchison
                                                                              Exploration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX             Engineering support for extended human and         $1,000,000  Neugebauer; Hall (TX)           Cornyn
                                                                              robotic space flight missions--Texas Tech
                                                                              University
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Thurgood Marshall College Fund, New York, NY   The Minority Science Initiative                      $100,000  Ruppersberger; Cummings; Meek   Landrieu
                                                                                                                                             (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Towson University, Towson, MD                  The Baltimore Excellence in Science Teaching       $1,000,000  Ruppersberger; Sarbanes         Mikulski
                                                                              (BEST) Partnership
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Alabama in Huntsville,           Virtual Environment Simulation Laboratory            $500,000  Aderholt                        Shelby
                               Huntsville, AL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL          Diagnostic Sensing for Predictive Maintenance        $500,000                                  Shelby
                                                                              of Aerospace Vehicles
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL          Miniature Antennas for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles      $350,000  Aderholt; Bachus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Louisville, Louisville, KY       University of Louisville for diagnosing and        $2,000,000                                  McConnell; Bunning
                                                                              mitigating human exposure to radiation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Mississippi, Oxford, MS          National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and       $2,400,000  Childers                        Cochran
                                                                              Space Law
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha,  Supporting Surgical Options in Space               $2,700,000                                  Nelson, Ben
                               NE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Nevada at Las Vegas, Las Vegas,  Gravity Insensitive Solid-Gas Sorption Climate       $750,000                                  Reid
                               NV                                             Control System
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA     UNO, National Center for Advance Manufacturing       $250,000                                  Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND    Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium                 $3,000,000  Pomeroy                         Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA   National Institute for Early Math and Science        $700,000  Braley (IA)                     Harkin; Grassley
                                                                              Education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL        Center for Advanced Materials Engineering            $500,000                                  Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Southern Mississippi,            National Formulation Science Laboratory            $1,000,000                                  Cochran
                               Hattiesburg, MS                                Equipment Request
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Southern Mississippi,            Technology Industry Partnership for                $1,000,000                                  Cochran; Wicker
                               Hattiesburg, MS                                transitioning space technologies into the
                                                                              commercial sector
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Toledo, Toledo, OH               Advanced Photovoltaics Array Testing                 $500,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             University of Vermont, Burlington, VT          Complex Systems and Advanced Computing Center        $500,000                                  Leahy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Universtiy of Mississippi, University, MS      Innovative STEM Eduation                             $200,000  Childers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV       Aviation Safety Research and Design                $1,500,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Wheeling Jesuit University, Wheeling, WV       Great Science Online                                 $300,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Wheeling Jesuit University, Wheeling, WV       HEALTHeWV                                          $5,000,000                                  Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Wheelock College, Boston, MA                   Math and Science Learning Community                  $800,000  Capuano                         Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA          CAS             Xavier University, New Orleans, LA             STEM Summer Program                                  $400,000  Cao                             Landrieu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

                        (In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...     $76,101,698
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................      67,183,677
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................      67,196,907
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................      67,492,432
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................      68,174,287
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................      -7,927,411
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................        +990,610
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................        +977,380
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................        +681,855


 DIVISION C--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2010

      References in this statement to the Senate bill are to 
the bill (S. 1432) as reported to the Senate by the Committee 
on Appropriations on July 9, 2009 (S. Rept. 111-43). References 
to the House bill are to the bill (H.R. 3170) as passed by the 
House on July 16, 2009 (H. Rept. 111-202).
      Language included in House Report 111-202 or Senate 
Report 111-43 that is not changed by this joint explanatory 
statement is approved by the committee of conference. This 
explanatory statement, while repeating some report language for 
emphasis, is not intended to negate the language in the 
referenced House and Senate committee reports unless expressly 
provided herein.
      Where the House or Senate has directed submission of a 
report, that report is to be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $304,888,000 for 
departmental offices salaries and expenses, instead of 
$303,388,000 as proposed by the House and $305,712,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      For the activities under this heading, the conference 
agreement provides the following funding levels:

Executive Direction.....................................     $21,983,000
Economic Policies and Programs..........................      47,249,000
Financial Policies and Programs.........................      48,580,000
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence....................      64,611,000
Treasury-wide Management................................      22,679,000
Administration..........................................      99,786,000

      Within the Financial Policies and Programs budget 
activity, the conference agreement provides an increase of 
$1,000,000 above the amount assumed in the budget request for 
the Department's Office of Financial Education. The Department 
is directed to target this increase toward further financial 
education efforts aimed at elementary and high schools, as well 
as efforts to enhance other financial education efforts, 
including support for the revision of the national strategy on 
financial literacy and the development of measurable goals and 
objectives for the Financial Literacy and Education Commission.
      Within the funding provided for economic policies and 
programs: (1) $1,500,000 is provided for a comprehensive carbon 
audit of the Internal Revenue Code, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate and as authorized by Public Law 110-343, 
division B, section 117; and (2) $1,000,000 is provided for a 
study on the long-term economic effects of the aging population 
in the United States, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision allowing 
the Department to transfer up to 4 percent of funds available 
between budget activities upon notification of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations. Transfers in excess of 4 
percent may be made upon approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
      Department Responsiveness.--The conferees are 
dissatisfied with the responsiveness of the Department of the 
Treasury to questions and requests for information from the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees. For example, the 
Department did not submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations the responses to questions for the record in 
connection with the Treasury Department fiscal year 2010 budget 
hearings until several months after the hearings. Questions for 
the record are submitted to inform the Committees and increase 
their knowledge of the Administration's activities, ultimately 
improving the bills enacted into law. The conferees expect that 
the responsiveness of the Department of the Treasury will 
dramatically improve from this point 
forward.
      Economic Sanctions and Divestments.--The conferees direct 
the Department to fully implement the sanctions and divestment 
measures applicable to North Korea, Burma, Iran, Sudan, and 
Zimbabwe. The Department is further directed to promptly notify 
the Appropriations Committees of any resource constraints that 
adversely impact the implementation of these sanctions 
programs.
      Illegal Garnishment of Federal Benefits.--The conferees 
reiterate the Senate report language regarding the illegal 
garnishment of Federal benefits by third-party collectors and 
direct the Department to provide a written report to the House 
and Senate Appropriations Committees, within 15 days of 
enactment of this Act, on the progress in creating guidelines 
to prevent this illegal garnishment.
      Financial and Economic Stabilization Efforts.--Given the 
ongoing need to provide stability to the economic and financial 
system, along with the billions of dollars in taxpayer funds 
that have been put at risk in the process, the conferees take 
very seriously the obligation of the Appropriations Committees 
to continue to exercise vigorous oversight over all of the 
Department's efforts in these areas. The conferees reiterate 
the associated detailed reporting requirements contained in 
House Report 111-202. The conferees direct the Department to 
ensure that the stabilization efforts are administered soundly 
and efficiently in order to minimize risks to the taxpayer. The 
Department is additionally directed to ensure that these 
efforts do not hamper the Department's other critical missions. 
Further, the conferees reiterate the Senate language directing 
the Department to: (1) develop a more effective strategy for 
communicating with Congress, the public, and other stakeholders 
with regard to economic and financial stabilization efforts, as 
recommended by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), (2) 
pursue more detailed reporting from entities receiving Troubled 
Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds, and (3) provide a monthly 
report on the number and value of foreclosures prevented to 
date under Treasury programs.

        DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $9,544,000 for systems 
and capital investments as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $29,700,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General as proposed by both the House and 
the 
Senate.

           TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX ADMINISTRATION

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $152,000,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration (TIGTA) as proposed by the Senate, instead of 
$149,000,000 as proposed by the House.

    SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $23,300,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP). The 
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (Public Law 110-343) 
provided the SIGTARP with a direct appropriation of $50,000,000 
to cover the costs of its audit, investigative and related 
expenses. It is the understanding of the conferees that this 
funding level is adequate to allow the SIGTARP to continue its 
work only for a portion of fiscal year 2010. The conferees have 
provided additional budget authority in this Act to allow the 
critical work of the SIGTARP to continue for the entirety of 
fiscal year 2010.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $111,010,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network (FinCEN), instead of $117,760,000 as proposed by the 
House and $104,260,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement provides an increase of $8,250,000 above 
the budget request. The conferees modify Senate report language 
and direct that, of the increase above the budget request, not 
less than $2,000,000 be used to improve collaboration with 
other Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs) around the world 
regarding international anti-money laundering and counter-
terrorism financing efforts, and to help FIUs to build and 
strengthen investigative and analytical capabilities.
      FinCEN is directed to submit a semiannual report to the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees summarizing the 
agency's progress regarding its information technology 
modernization effort, including milestones planned and 
achieved, progress on cost and schedule, management of 
contractor oversight, strategies to involve stakeholders, and 
acquisition management efforts.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$90,000,000 of the unobligated balances in the Treasury 
Forfeiture Fund, instead of $50,000,000 as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.
      The conferees direct the Department to provide 
information in the Department of the Treasury fiscal year 2011 
budget request, as well as updates every 60 days thereafter, on 
the projected amount of Super Surplus available for obligation 
in fiscal year 2011.

                      Financial Management Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $244,132,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Financial Management Service (FMS) 
as proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      Treasury Securities Sold to Foreign Investors.--The 
conferees reiterate the House language requesting that FMS 
include in the Monthly Treasury Statement the amounts of 
Treasury securities sold to foreign investors in the most 
recent month of available data, as well as a breakdown, by 
country, of foreign ownership of Treasury securities.
      Federal Government Payment of Card Transaction Fees.--The 
conferees reiterate the Senate language regarding the Federal 
Government's payment of interchange and other fees on credit 
and debit card transactions and direct FMS to report to the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees, within 180 days of 
enactment of this Act, on the potential cost savings and other 
benefits to the Federal Government if FMS were able to 
effectively negotiate (1) changes in the rates and fees 
assessed by card networks and (2) modifications to the rules 
and regulations of the card networks which restrict the Federal 
Government's ability to determine the types of card payments it 
accepts and the methods by which its transactions are 
processed.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $103,000,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade 
Bureau as proposed by the Senate, instead of $99,500,000 as 
proposed by the House. Within this amount, $3,000,000, 
available until September 30, 2011, is provided for the hiring, 
training, and equipping of special agents and related support 
personnel.

                           United States Mint

               UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND

      The conference agreement provides that not more than 
$26,700,000 in new liabilities and obligations may be incurred 
during fiscal year 2010 for circulating coinage and protective 
service capital investments of the U.S. Mint, as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     ADMINISTERING THE PUBLIC DEBT

      The conference agreement provides $192,244,000 for costs 
associated with administering the public debt, as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate. The conference agreement further 
directs that $10,000,000 in user fees be used to offset the 
appropriated amounts.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $246,750,000 for the 
Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund 
program as proposed by the Senate, instead of $243,600,000 as 
proposed by the House. Within this amount, up to $18,000,000 is 
for administrative expenses and $12,000,000 is for technical 
assistance and other purposes for Native American, Native 
Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native communities.
      Of the funds provided, $80,000,000, as requested and as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate, is to be transferred 
to the Capital Magnet Fund. The Capital Magnet Fund is 
authorized by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110-289) to support affordable housing and related 
community development efforts. The conference agreement 
provides temporary funding, in lieu of contributions from 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The conferees intend the funding to 
provide start-up capital and fully expect that the Capital 
Magnet Fund will operate without additional appropriations in 
the future when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac begin the required 
contributions.
      Further, within the funds provided, $4,150,000 is 
included for a competitive grants pilot program aimed at 
providing financial counseling services to prospective 
homebuyers, as authorized by the Housing and Economic Recovery 
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-289). Of this amount, $3,150,000, 
as proposed by the Senate, is for a pilot program to be 
conducted in Hawaii for financial education and pre-
homeownership counseling. In developing the competitive grants 
process, the Department is directed to consult with other 
Federal agencies and public and private organizations with 
expertise in community-based financial counseling programs.
      The Department is directed to fund the Bank Enterprise 
Award program at a level not less than $25,000,000.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           TAXPAYER SERVICES

      The conference agreement provides $2,278,830,000 for 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Taxpayer Services, instead of 
$2,273,830,000 as proposed by the House and $2,275,830,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within the overall amount, not less 
than $10,000,000 is for low-income taxpayer clinic grants, and 
not less than $6,100,000 is for the Tax Counseling for the 
Elderly program. Not less than $205,954,000 is provided for 
operating expenses of the IRS Taxpayer Advocate Service.
      In addition, within the overall amount provided, 
$12,000,000, available until September 30, 2011, is included 
for the Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) 
matching grants demonstration program. The conferees urge the 
IRS to make every effort to expand the quantity and funding 
level of VITA grants focused on serving persons with 
disabilities proportional to the growing disability population 
requiring tax assistance.
      Taxpayer Assistance Blueprint (TAB).--The conferees 
reiterate House and Senate report language regarding IRS 
efforts, in conjunction with the IRS Oversight Board and the 
IRS Taxpayer Advocate, to update the TAB. The conferees direct 
the IRS to continue to submit annual updates to the TAB and 
include the updates as part of the annual IRS budget 
submission, beginning with the submission of the fiscal year 
2012 budget request.

                              ENFORCEMENT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $5,504,000,000 for 
Enforcement as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                           OPERATIONS SUPPORT

      The conference agreement provides $4,083,884,000 for 
Operations Support, instead of $4,082,984,000 as proposed by 
the House and the Senate.

                     BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION

      The conference agreement provides $263,897,000 for 
Business Systems Modernization (BSM), instead of $253,674,000 
as proposed by the House and $274,119,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The amount represents an increase of $10,223,000 above 
the budget request. The conferees have provided the additional 
funds to support the IRS in furthering its new strategy for the 
Customer Account Data Engine. In addition, the conferees 
support additional funding being made available for this effort 
from IRS user fee collections, if the IRS determines that these 
funds are available and warranted.
      Language is retained requiring approval by the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations of a GAO-reviewed 
expenditure plan for BSM prior to the obligation of the funds, 
except in the case of funds for IRS labor costs.

               HEALTH INSURANCE TAX CREDIT ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement provides $15,512,000 for 
administration of the Health Insurance Tax Credit program as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      Section 101 provides transfer authority.
      Section 102 requires the IRS to maintain training in 
taxpayer rights.
      Section 103 requires the IRS to safeguard taxpayer 
information.
      Section 104 permits funding for 1-800 help line services 
and directs the Commissioner to make improving phone service a 
priority.
      Section 105 directs that, of the funds made available by 
this Act to the IRS, not less than $7,100,000,000 shall be 
available for tax enforcement, and that an additional 
$890,000,000 shall be available for enhanced tax law 
enforcement, as proposed by the Senate.
      Section 106 prohibits funds made available in this Act 
from being used to enter into, renew, extend, administer, 
implement, enforce, or provide oversight of any private tax 
collection contract, as proposed by the Senate.
      Unless otherwise noted, these provisions were contained 
in similar form in both the House and Senate versions of the 
bill.

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      Section 107 allows Treasury to use funds for certain 
specified expenses.
      Section 108 allows for the transfer of up to 2 percent of 
funds between ``Departmental Offices'' and the various Treasury 
bureaus, except the IRS.
      Section 109 allows for the transfer of up to 2 percent 
from the IRS accounts to TIGTA.
      Section 110 directs that the purchase of vehicles be 
consistent with vehicle management principles.
      Section 111 prohibits funding to redesign the $1 note.
      Section 112 allows for the transfer of funds from 
``Financial Management Service, Salaries and Expenses'' to the 
Debt Collection Fund conditional on future reimbursement.
      Section 113 extends a pay demonstration program for one 
year.
      Section 114 prohibits funds to build a United States Mint 
museum without the approval of the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations and the authorizing committees of 
jurisdiction.
      Section 115 prohibits funding for consolidating the 
functions of the United States Mint and the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing without the approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and the authorizing committees of 
jurisdiction.
      Section 116 specifies that funds for Treasury 
intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
authorized until enactment of the fiscal year 2010 intelligence 
authorization act.
      Section 117 permits the Bureau of Engraving and Printing 
to use up to $5,000 from the Industrial Revolving Fund for 
reception and representation expenses.
      Unless otherwise noted, these provisions were contained 
in similar form in both the House and Senate versions of the 
bill.
      The conference agreement does not include section 116 of 
the House bill permitting the Secretary to establish additional 
accounts for various bureaus involved in the administration of 
refund payments under 31 U.S.C. 1324.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                     Compensation of the President

      The conference agreement provides $450,000 for 
compensation of the President as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.

                            The White House

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $59,143,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the White House, instead of 
$59,319,000 as proposed by both the House and the Senate. The 
agreement also specifies that not less than $1,400,000 shall be 
for the Office of National AIDS Policy. Relative to the House 
and Senate bills, the conferees have shifted $176,000 from this 
account to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to reflect 
the Administration's decision to locate the new Intellectual 
Property Enforcement Coordinator at OMB rather than the White 
House.

                 EXECUTIVE RESIDENCE AT THE WHITE HOUSE

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $13,838,000 for the 
Executive Residence at the White House as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

      The conference agreement provides $2,500,000 for repair, 
alteration and improvement of the Executive Residence at the 
White House as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $4,200,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                       National Security Council

                         Salaries and Expenses

      The conference agreement provides $12,231,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the National Security Council as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                        Office of Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $115,280,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Administration as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $92,863,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB), instead of $92,687,000 as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate. Relative to the House and Senate bills, the 
conferees have shifted $176,000 to this account from the White 
House, to reflect the Administration's decision to locate the 
new Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator at OMB rather 
than the White House.
      The conferees urge OMB to focus efforts on planning and 
implementing a modernization of the Federal Government's core 
budgeting system using funds provided for fiscal years 2009 and 
2010.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $29,575,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy (ONDCP), instead of $27,575,000 as proposed by the House 
and $28,575,000 as proposed by the Senate. The additional 
funding is intended to allow for an increase in ONDCP staff to 
as close to 118 full-time equivalents as possible. The 
conferees are pleased that ONDCP has taken steps to implement 
the recommendations and action items contained in the 2008 
report by the National Academy of Public Administration, and 
direct that ONDCP continue to do so and keep the Committees on 
Appropriations informed of its progress.
      Budget Justifications.--The conferees direct that the 
ONDCP congressional budget justification (CBJ) shall remain 
separate, as well as summarized within the justification of the 
Executive Office of the President, as in previous years. In 
addition, the conferees expect more detail and context in the 
fiscal year 2011 ONDCP CBJ, so that the Committees can better 
understand the scope and intended direction of the programs.
      Staffing Reports.--The conferees remain interested in 
receiving quarterly reports on staffing, including current 
levels, vacancies, new hires, and plans for new hires. The 
staffing reports shall include office, position title, job 
classifications, and bonuses, and be retroactive to fiscal year 
2009.

                COUNTERDRUG TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT CENTER

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $5,000,000 for the 
Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center (CTAC), instead of 
$1,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose 
funding for this program.
      In recent years, funding for CTAC has decreased due to a 
lack of confidence in the previous management as well as 
concern about the direction of the program and projects funded. 
Now that ONDCP has signaled a new direction for the program, 
more tailored to its original mission, the conference agreement 
provides $5,000,000 for a newly-invigorated program, contingent 
upon receipt and approval by the Committees on Appropriations 
of information including the mission, detailed program 
description, and spending plan for CTAC. The conferees 
understand that CTAC's new program will supplement and enhance 
other government-sponsored research in both drug supply and 
drug demand reduction, with a focus on development of new 
scientific technologies, including prevention technology 
research.

                     FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS

             HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS PROGRAM

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $239,000,000 for the 
High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program (HIDTA), instead 
of $248,000,000 as proposed by the House and $234,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement specifies that 
each HIDTA be funded at not less than the fiscal year 2009 base 
level, unless the ONDCP Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations justification for changes to those levels based 
on clearly articulated priorities and published performance 
measures. The conferees intend that increased funding provided 
above the fiscal year 2009 level is for program adjustments and 
discretionary activities (particularly Native American programs 
and prevention programs). Allocation of funds among 
discretionary activities is to be determined in consultation 
with the HIDTA Directors, and the Committees on Appropriations 
are to be notified of planned uses not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act.

                  OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $154,400,000 for Other 
Federal Drug Control Programs, instead of $132,400,000 as 
proposed by the House and $174,750,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The agreement allocates funds among specific programs 
as follows:

National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign.................     $45,000,000
Drug-Free Communities Program...........................      95,000,000
    (National Community Anti-Drug Coalition training....      2,000,000)
National Drug Court Institute...........................       1,000,000
United States Anti-Doping Agency........................      10,000,000
World Anti-Doping Agency (U.S. membership dues).........       1,900,000
National Alliance for Model State Drug Laws.............       1,250,000
Performance Measures Development........................         250,000

      The conference agreement's $45,000,000 funding level for 
the media campaign is $25,000,000 more than proposed by the 
House and $25,000,000 less than proposed by the Senate. The 
conferees direct ONDCP to maintain funding for non-advertising 
services of the media campaign at not less than the fiscal year 
2003 ratio and to continue the corporate outreach program. 
Further, the conferees direct that not more than 10 percent of 
the amount appropriated for the media campaign may be used for 
administration, advertising production, research and testing, 
labor, and related costs. To help save on production costs, the 
conferees suggest that ONDCP consider ``recycling'' 
advertisements from past years as well as developing new 
material. In order to combat methamphetamine use within scarce 
resources, the conferees encourage ONDCP to focus 
methamphetamine prevention advertising on geographic areas with 
the highest level of methamphetamine abuse.

                          Unanticipated Needs

      The conference agreement provides $1,000,000 for 
unanticipated needs as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.

           Partnership Fund for Program Integrity Innovation

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $37,500,000 for the 
Partnership Fund for Program Integrity Innovation, instead of 
$40,000,000 as proposed by both the House and the Senate. The 
agreement adopts the Senate approach of requiring establishment 
of an interagency council consisting of representatives of 
appropriate Federal agencies, States and other stakeholders to 
make decisions and determinations regarding pilot projects 
under the Partnership Fund and requiring the council to report 
semiannually to the Committees on Appropriations.
      The conferees expect OMB to play a coordinating role in 
designing pilots, developing performance measures, and 
allocating funds, but intend that the interagency council will 
be the exclusive decision making body and that funds will be 
transferred to appropriate Federal agencies to manage and 
evaluate the individual pilot projects. The OMB Director, as 
chair of the council, should seek consensus and maximum input 
from council members and participating Federal and State 
agencies. Under the conference agreement, the interagency 
council, in consultation with OMB, will submit a progress 
report to the Appropriations Committees by March 31, 2010 and 
semiannually thereafter until the program is concluded. Reports 
are to include detailed information on goals, objectives, 
performance measures, and evaluations of the Partnership Fund 
and each pilot project, along with an operating plan detailing 
current and planned funding allocations.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $4,604,000 for salaries 
and expenses to enable the Vice President to provide special 
assistance to the President as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $330,000 for operating 
expenses for the official residence of the Vice President as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      Section 201 provides transfer authority among various 
Executive Office of the President accounts.
      Section 202 requires a detailed narrative and financial 
plan for Office of National Drug Control Policy funds.
      Section 203 provides transfer authority among Office of 
National Drug Control Policy accounts.
      Section 204 governs reprogramming of Office of National 
Drug Control Policy funds.
      These administrative provisions were included in similar 
form in both the House and Senate versions of the legislation.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $74,034,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Supreme Court as proposed by the 
House, instead of $74,081,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                    CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

      The conference agreement provides $14,525,000 for the 
care of the Supreme Court building and grounds as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $32,560,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the United States Court of Appeals for 
the Federal Circuit, instead of $33,577,000 as proposed by the 
House and $32,300,000 as proposed by the Senate. The court 
appears to have added additional staff during fiscal year 2009 
beyond what was identified in its fiscal year 2009 financial 
plan. The conferees have not provided additional funds for 
fiscal year 2010 to cover the annualized cost of these new 
positions.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $21,350,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the United States Court of 
International Trade as proposed by the House, instead of 
$21,374,000 as proposed by the Senate.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $5,011,018,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Courts of Appeals, District 
Courts, and Other Judicial Services, instead of $5,080,709,000 
as proposed by the House and $5,076,845,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. In addition, the agreement provides $5,428,000 from the 
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate. Reductions in this account below the 
levels proposed in the House and Senate bills largely result 
from more recent estimates provided by the Judiciary, 
reflecting updated cost estimates and revised projections of 
fee income and carryover balances.
      Five-Year Plan for Courthouse Construction.--The 
conferees appreciate the five-year priority plans for 
courthouse construction which have been provided by the 
Judicial Conference of the United States in recent years, and 
have found those plans to be helpful in their deliberations. 
Some construction projects have apparently been omitted from 
those plans, however, on the basis that the Judicial Conference 
intended them to be carried out through ``build to suit'' 
leases rather than through Federal construction. There is 
considerable disagreement as to the circumstances (if any) 
under which leasing might be more suitable than construction in 
the case of courthouses, and the conferees have directed that 
the General Services Administration and the Judiciary prepare a 
joint report on that issue. The conferees, therefore, strongly 
urge the Judicial Conference to provide one integrated list of 
courthouse construction priorities in future years, ranked in 
overall priority order regardless of the financing mechanism 
being proposed for each. That list should also include any 
construction projects deemed emergencies as well as any 
projects funded in prior years but for which additional funding 
is needed. A single list along these lines will facilitate due 
consideration of Judicial Branch priorities.
      Greenville, Mississippi Federal Building and 
Courthouse.--The conferees understand that the United States 
Marshals Service (USMS) has serious concerns about the security 
deficiencies that exist in the current Federal building and 
courthouse facility in Greenville, Mississippi. These 
deficiencies have caused this facility to score among the 
lowest of such facilities in a nationwide USMS facility 
assessment. The conferees are concerned that these deficiencies 
pose a security threat to USMS personnel and their protectees 
detained at the Greenville facility. The conferees request that 
the Judicial Conference review the security deficiencies of the 
Greenville facility, evaluate all alternatives to remedy this 
situation, and report its findings to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations no later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act.

                           DEFENDER SERVICES

      The conference agreement provides $977,748,000 for 
Defender Services, instead of $982,699,000 as proposed by the 
House and $975,504,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Panel Attorney Pay Rates.--The conference agreement 
increases the non-capital panel attorney rate from $110 to $125 
per hour, instead of $139 as proposed by the House and $115 as 
proposed by the Senate. Private panel attorney rates in capital 
cases are provided a cost-of-living adjustment from $175 to 
$177 per hour.

                    FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS

      The conference agreement provides $61,861,000 for Fees of 
Jurors and Commissioners, instead of $62,275,000 as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

                             COURT SECURITY

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $452,607,000 for court 
security, instead of $457,353,000 as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate. The reduction in this account below the House 
and Senate level largely reflects updated estimates of costs 
for reimbursement of the Federal Protective Service.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $83,075,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts, as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $27,328,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                       Judicial Retirement Funds

                    PAYMENT TO JUDICIARY TRUST FUNDS

      The conference agreement provides $82,374,000 for 
payments to the judiciary trust funds, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $16,837,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the United States Sentencing 
Commission, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      Section 301 makes funds appropriated for salaries and 
expenses available for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
      Section 302 provides transfer authority among Judiciary 
appropriations.
      Section 303 permits not more than $11,000 to be used for 
official reception and representation expenses of the Judicial 
Conference.
      Section 304 requires a comprehensive financial plan from 
the Judiciary, which will establish a baseline for 
reprogrammings and transfers.
      Section 305 extends through fiscal year 2010 the 
delegation of authority to the Judiciary for contracts for 
repairs of less than $100,000, as proposed by the House. The 
Senate proposed language amending 40 U.S.C. 3314(a) to make 
this delegation permanent.
      Section 306 continues a pilot program under which the 
United States Marshals Service provides perimeter security 
services at selected courthouses.
      Section 307 extends for one year the authorization of 
temporary district judgeships in Kansas, Ohio, and Hawaii. The 
House proposed language extending the judgeships in Kansas and 
Ohio while the Senate bill contained no similar provisions.
      Except where otherwise noted, the provisions listed above 
were included in similar form in the House and Senate versions 
of the legislation. The conference agreement does not include 
language proposed by the Senate authorizing a cost-of-living 
salary adjustment for justices and judges of the United States 
during fiscal year 2010.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION SUPPORT

      The conference agreement includes $35,100,000 for 
District of Columbia resident tuition support as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate. The District of Columbia is 
expected to adhere to the authorizing statute with regard to 
the administrative expenses associated with operation of this 
program.

   FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

      The conference agreement provides $15,000,000 for 
emergency planning and security costs in the District of 
Columbia as proposed by the House instead of $15,350,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The Senate proposed $350,000 under this heading for the 
District of Columbia National Guard tuition assistance program. 
The conference agreement includes $375,000 for the D.C. Guard 
tuition assistance program under the ``Federal Payment for the 
District of Columbia National Guard'' heading of this title.

           FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

      The conference agreement provides $261,180,000 for the 
District of Columbia Courts, instead of $268,920,000 as 
proposed by the House and $258,517,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within the amount provided, $12,022,000 is for the 
District of Columbia Court of Appeals, $108,524,000 is for the 
District of Columbia Superior Court, $65,114,000 is for the 
District of Columbia Court System, and $75,520,000 is for 
capital improvements to Court facilities. Official reception 
and representation expenses for the Court of Appeals, Superior 
Court, and Court System are each limited to $2,500 as proposed 
by the Senate instead of $1,500 as proposed by the House.

  FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

      The conference agreement includes $55,000,000 for 
Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY 
                      FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

      The conference agreement provides $212,408,000 to the 
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District 
of Columbia as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

  FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE FOR THE DISTRICT OF 
                                COLUMBIA

      The conference agreement includes $37,316,000 for the 
Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY

      The conference agreement provides $20,000,000 for the 
District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority (WASA) as 
proposed by the Senate instead of $20,400,000 as proposed by 
the House. The amount provided is to continue implementation of 
the Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan with a 100 percent 
match provided by WASA.
      The conference agreement does not include funding 
proposed by the House for the District of Columbia Department 
of Environment to conduct a study of lead levels in the 
District of Columbia's drinking water.

      FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL

      The conference agreement provides $2,000,000 for the 
Criminal Justice Coordinating Council as proposed by the House 
instead of $1,774,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS

      The conference agreement provides $500,000 for Judicial 
Commissions as proposed by both the House and the Senate. 
Within the amount provided, $295,000 is for the Commission on 
Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, and $205,000 is for the 
Judicial Nomination Commission.

 FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FOR THE 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

      The conference agreement provides $1,850,000 to the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia. The funding is for grants to the following 
organizations with the requirement that the funds be spent 
primarily in the District of Columbia to benefit District 
residents:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Project name                            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC, expand    $1,000,000
 pediatric intensive care unit............................
Living Classrooms of the National Capital Region,                100,000
 Washington, DC, education and job skills training for
 disadvantaged young adults...............................
National Building Museum, Washington, DC, education              150,000
 programs and exhibitions.................................
Safe Kids USA, Washington, DC, safety services for               125,000
 families in need.........................................
Samaritan Ministry of Greater Washington, Washington, DC,        100,000
 Next Step Program........................................
The Washington Center, Washington, DC, construction and          125,000
 build out of academic space..............................
Washington Hospital Center, Washington, DC, trauma center         50,000
 and other critical hospital upgrades.....................
Whitman-Walker Clinic, Washington, DC, health care               200,000
 services.................................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT

      The conference agreement includes $75,400,000 for school 
improvement in the District of Columbia as proposed by the 
Senate instead of $74,400,000 as proposed by the House. Within 
the amount provided, $42,200,000 is to improve public school 
education, $20,000,000 is to expand public charter schools, and 
$13,200,000 is for the Secretary of Education for opportunity 
scholarships for low-income students in the District of 
Columbia for the 2010-2011 school year, of which up to 
$1,000,000 may be used to administer and fund assessments, and 
up to $1,000,000 may be used for testing of scholarship 
students to determine and compare academic performance of the 
participating schools as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
both the House and the Senate specifying that opportunity 
scholarships funded in this Act for school year 2010-2011 be 
limited to students who received scholarships in school year 
2009-2010.
      The conference agreement continues the requirement that 
schools enrolling scholarship students have and maintain a 
valid certificate of occupancy issued by the District of 
Columbia and that core subject matter teachers have 4-year 
bachelor's degrees as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate. The agreement includes new language requiring schools 
enrolling scholarship students to be in compliance with the 
accreditation and other standards prescribed for purposes of 
the District of Columbia compulsory school attendance laws as 
specified under title 5, chapter 21 of D.C. Municipal 
Regulations. The agreement also includes new language requiring 
the Secretary of Education to ensure that site inspections of 
participating schools are conducted at least twice annually.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the Senate requiring the Secretary of Education to submit a 
report to Congress by June 15, 2010 detailing the academic 
rigor and quality of each participating school and that for the 
purposes of submitting the report the Secretary shall 
administer to eligible students participating in the 
Opportunity Scholarship Program the same tests of academic 
performance as those administered to students enrolled in the 
District of Columbia Public Schools in the 2009-2010 school 
year. The conference agreement does not include language 
proposed by the Senate specifying that after school year 2009-
2010 only schools determined by the Secretary of Education to 
be of superior academic rigor and quality to D.C. Public 
Schools may participate in the scholarship program.
      The conferees believe that questions as to the future of 
a school voucher program in the District of Columbia, including 
the appropriate rules and limitations for such a program, would 
best be decided by the elected representatives of the people of 
the District. This would put the District in the same position 
as other jurisdictions that decide whether or not to have a 
school voucher program, consistent with the principles of home 
rule.
      Although the authorization for the Opportunity 
Scholarship Program has expired, as noted above the conference 
agreement includes funds to continue scholarships in school 
year 2010-2011 for those students already participating. The 
conferees are aware of proposals to expand the scholarship 
program to include additional students. If the elected leaders 
of the District decide that such proposals are in the best 
interests of students and families in the District, there is 
time prior to the beginning of school year 2010-2011 for the 
Mayor and Council to enact legislation establishing and funding 
a school voucher program that could admit additional students.

          FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR CONSOLIDATED LABORATORY FACILITY

      The conference agreement provides $15,000,000 for a 
consolidated laboratory facility in the District of Columbia as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The conferees note 
that this is the final Federal payment needed to complete work 
on this important project.

      FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD

      The conference agreement provides $375,000 for the 
District of Columbia National Guard instead of $2,375,000 as 
proposed by the House. The funds provided are for the D.C. 
National Guard tuition assistance program. No funds are 
provided in the conference agreement for support costs 
associated with the D.C. National Guard.
      The Senate did not propose funding for D.C. Guard support 
costs although the Senate proposed $350,000 for the D.C. 
National Guard tuition assistance program under the ``Federal 
Payment for Emergency Planning and Security Costs'' heading of 
this title.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the House that the D.C. National Guard's tuition assistance 
program will hereafter be known as the ``Major General David F. 
Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program''. General Wherley was a former 
commanding general of the D.C. National Guard and was killed in 
the tragic Metrorail train crash that occurred in Washington, 
D.C. on June 22, 2009. As commanding general of the D.C. 
National Guard, General Wherley was in frequent contact with 
Congress in order to further the ability of the Guard to serve 
the citizens of the District of Columbia, as well as the 
Nation's elected leadership. Among a number of initiatives, 
General Wherley advocated on behalf of the Capital Guardians 
for funding for a retention and college access program to 
ensure that members of the D.C. National Guard received some of 
the same benefits for their service as members of the National 
Guard in neighboring states. The D.C. National Guard and the 
entire community of the District of Columbia lost a dedicated 
leader and public servant in General Wherley. In honor of his 
service to the District of Columbia and his commitment to those 
he worked with, the D.C. National Guard tuition assistance 
program will hereafter carry his name.

              FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR HOUSING FOR THE HOMELESS

      The conference agreement provides $17,000,000 for a 
permanent supportive housing program to reduce homelessness in 
the District of Columbia instead of $19,200,000 as proposed by 
the House. The Senate version of the bill did not include 
funding for this program.

                   FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR YOUTH SERVICES

      The conference agreement provides $4,000,000 for a 
reconnecting disconnected youth program in the District of 
Columbia instead of $5,000,000 as proposed by the House. The 
Senate version of the bill did not include funding for this 
program.

               FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES

      The conference agreement does not provide a Federal 
payment to the District of Columbia for HIV/AIDS prevention 
programs. The House proposed $4,000,000 for this program; the 
Senate version of the bill did not include funding.

                       District of Columbia Funds

      The conference agreement provides authority for the 
District of Columbia to spend $10,016,041,000 from the General 
Fund of the District of Columbia. Of the funds provided, 
$5,637,824,000 is from local funds, of which $394,417,000 is 
from the general fund balance; $2,661,782,000 is from Federal 
grant funds; $1,711,249,000 is from other funds; and $5,187,000 
is from private funds. In addition, the District may use 
$185,725,000 from funds previously appropriated in this Act as 
Federal payments.
      For capital construction, the conference agreement 
provides an additional $3,249,642,000. Of the funds provided, 
$2,685,760,000 is from local funds; $54,893,000 is from the 
District of Columbia Highway Trust Fund; $186,805,000 is from 
the Local Street Maintenance Fund; and $322,184,000 is from 
Federal grant funds. In addition, $1,834,494,000 of prior year 
local funds and $91,327,000 from Local Street Maintenance funds 
are rescinded. In total, $1,323,821,000 is provided for capital 
construction.
      Any changes to the financial plan submitted by the 
District of Columbia for Federal funds must follow the 
reprogramming guidelines set forth under title VIII of this 
Act.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $1,500,000 for the 
Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The conferees expect 
ACUS to use 50 percent of fiscal year 2009 carryover balances 
to fund fiscal year 2010 operating expenses as permitted under 
section 609 of division D of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-8). Funds remain available until September 
30, 2011 as proposed by the Senate.

               Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $750,000 for the 
Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation, instead of 
$1,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not include 
an appropriation for this account.

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      This conference agreement does not include funding for 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. While the Senate 
included funding for the Commission in its version of the bill, 
$168,800,000 in fiscal year 2010 funding for the Commission has 
been enacted in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2010 (Public Law 111-80).

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $118,200,000 for the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) as proposed by the 
House, instead of $115,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Funding is provided for the ongoing implementation and 
enforcement of recently enacted consumer protection 
legislation, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement 
Act, the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act, and the 
Children's Gasoline Burn Prevention Act. Funding is also 
provided to support expansion of the CPSC's Import Safety 
Initiative which positions CPSC investigators at key ports of 
entry to stop defective products from entering the United 
States. The conferees expect new staff hires, including at key 
ports of entry, as part of these implementation and enforcement 
efforts.
      The conference agreement also provides funding to assist 
the CPSC in further identifying and addressing problems that 
may be associated with imported drywall from China.
      The conference agreement modifies House report language 
regarding the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (CPSIA) 
of 2008 (Public Law 110-314). The CPSIA was signed into law on 
August 14, 2008 and is considered to be the most significant 
piece of consumer protection legislation enacted since the CPSC 
was established in the early 1970s. The legislation received 
nearly unanimous bipartisan support in Congress. Congress 
passed this legislation in the wake of a massive number of 
consumer product recalls in 2007 and 2008--more than 20 
million--many of which involved toys manufactured in China. The 
conferees strongly support this legislation but are aware of 
concerns surrounding implementation of certain aspects of the 
law. The conferees believe there may be parts of some products 
subject to the strict lead ban under section 101(a) of the 
CPSIA that likely were not intended to be included. This 
includes parts of youth motorized off-road vehicles and 
bicycles, and may include parts of some sporting equipment and 
ordinary books. The conferees urge the CPSC to continue 
considering exemptions under section 101(b) of the CPSIA for 
parts of products that, based on the CPSC's determination, 
present no real risk of lead exposure to children. The 
conferees are also aware of concerns among small manufacturers 
and crafters regarding the third-party testing requirements 
under section 102 of the CPSIA and urge the CPSC to consider 
those when issuing rules and guidance on third-party testing.
      The conferees further encourage the CPSC to continue to 
work with the off-road vehicle and other industries to reduce 
lead content in accessible components of all children's 
products to the greatest extent possible, where complete 
compliance is deemed not necessary or not feasible by the CPSC. 
The conferees note that the CPSC has already instituted a stay 
of enforcement until May 1, 2011 on the lead standard with 
regard to youth motorized recreational vehicles (which include 
all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles) with the 
expectation that the industries would work constructively with 
the CPSC in reducing lead levels as feasible. The CPSC is 
directed to assess enforcement efforts of section 101(a), 
including difficulties encountered, as well as recommendations 
for improvement to the statute, and to report to the House and 
Senate Appropriations Committees, as well as the House Energy 
and Commerce Committee and the Senate Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation Committee, no later than January 15, 2010.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $17,959,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Election Assistance Commission as 
proposed by the House, instead of $16,530,000 proposed by the 
Senate.
      Included in this total is $3,500,000 to be transferred to 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology for election 
reform activities as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed 
a transfer of $3,250,000. Further included in the total is 
$750,000 for the Help America Vote College Program and $300,000 
for a competitive grant program to support community 
involvement in student and parent mock elections, as proposed 
by the House.

                        ELECTION REFORM PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides a total of $75,000,000 
for this account, instead of $106,000,000 as proposed by the 
House and $52,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Within this total, $70,000,000 is designated for 
requirements payments under the Help America Vote Act, compared 
to $100,000,000 in the House bill and $50,000,000 in the Senate 
bill. Also within the total is $3,000,000 for grants to carry 
out research on voting technology improvements to ensure 
accessibility for voters with disabilities, and $2,000,000 for 
a pilot program of grants to States and units of local 
government for pre-election logic and accuracy testing and 
post-election voting systems verification. The House proposed 
$4,000,000 and $2,000,000 for these grant programs, 
respectively, while the Senate proposed $2,000,000 for voting 
technology research grants only.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $335,794,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) as proposed by the House and the Senate. The House 
recedes to the Senate in providing that $335,794,000 be derived 
from offsetting fee collections with no net direct 
appropriation.
      The conferees believe that all persons living under the 
American flag, including those living in the United States 
territories, should have equal access to communications 
services.
      The 9/11 Commission identified the need to increase the 
assignment of spectrum for first responders in its July 2004 
report. The conferees are disappointed that the Federal 
Government has yet to address this critical need. The FCC is 
directed to work expeditiously to conduct a successful auction 
of the D Block spectrum so that first responders have an 
interoperable communications network.
      Conferees urge the FCC to ensure that public, 
educational, and governmental (PEG) channels remain on the 
basic service tier of programming and to prevent cable service 
providers from impeding the public's access to PEG programming.
      The conferees are concerned that some Federal agencies 
may not be improving controls over wireless networks as 
delineated in the Government Accountability Office's 2005 
report (GAO-05-383). Therefore, the conferees direct GAO to 
update its report and include a review of Federal agencies and 
their wireless networks, including an assessment of 
vulnerabilities to attack and unauthorized penetration; an 
examination of best practices within Federal agencies for 
deploying and monitoring secure wireless networks; and an 
assessment of state-of-the-art technology solutions that could 
help protect these networks. GAO shall report its findings to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 120 
days of enactment of this Act.
      The conferees emphasize the importance of effective 
auditing of the Universal Service Fund (USF). The FCC is 
directed to work with the Universal Service Administrative 
Company and the FCC Inspector General to re-evaluate auditing 
processes to ensure that audits are more uniform and not unduly 
onerous, that all auditors are familiar with the 
telecommunications industry, and that lessons learned from 
audits are translated into better performance in the future. 
Senate report language requiring a report on USF audit activity 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act is adopted.

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

      Section 501 extends an exemption for the Universal 
Service Fund as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
include a similar provision.
      Section 502 prohibits the Federal Communications 
Commission from changing rules governing the Universal Service 
Fund regarding single connection or primary line restrictions 
as proposed by the Senate. The House did not include a similar 
provision.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference report includes $37,942,000 to fund the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate. The OIG's appropriations are derived from the 
Deposit Insurance Fund. However, if the OIG performs work in 
connection with the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance 
Corporation Resolution Fund, the cost of such work can be 
derived from that Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $66,500,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Election Commission, 
instead of $65,100,000 as proposed by the House and $67,000,000 
as proposed by the Senate. Of the increase provided above the 
President's budget request, $1,500,000 is for maintaining 
current staffing levels and services, and $1,000,000 is for 
addressing audit findings related to information technology, 
enhancing public access to electronic records, and addressing 
increased workload demands.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $24,773,000 for the 
Federal Labor Relations Authority as proposed by the House and 
the Senate.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $291,700,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) as 
proposed by the House, rather than $289,300,000 as proposed by 
the Senate. This appropriation is partially offset by not to 
exceed $102,000,000 from premerger notification filing fees and 
$21,000,000 from fees to implement the Telemarketing Sales 
Rule. These offsets are the same as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate, except that the House proposed $19,000,000 in 
fees from the Telemarketing Sales Rule.
      The increase above the President's budget request 
provided in the conference agreement is to strengthen the FTC's 
capacity to protect consumers and prevent anti-competitive 
practices, as well as to support required activities related to 
health information technology provisions in the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Among other priorities, the 
conferees request the FTC to direct a portion of the increase 
toward investigations into fraud related to the housing crisis 
(including mortgage and other financial services fraud) and 
into unfair and deceptive practices associated with Federal 
programs promoting economic stimulus and stabilization. The 
conferees also note that, of the increase above fiscal year 
2009, $15,000,000 is to cover one-time relocation costs 
associated with the upcoming expiration of a lease.
      The conferees appreciate that the FTC has delayed 
implementation of the Red Flags Rule while it works with health 
care providers and small businesses to minimize the burdens on 
providers and firms that present low risk for identity theft. 
The conferees urge the FTC to continue to work with these 
groups on the implementation of the Red Flags Rule.
      The conferees also encourage the FTC to continue its 
efforts in the areas of call spoofing and violations of the Do 
Not Call Registry and to fully pursue further violations.

                    General Services Administration

                        REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES

                         FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND

                 LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE

      The conference agreement provides resources from the 
General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Buildings Fund 
totaling $8,543,585,000, instead of $8,445,460,000 as proposed 
by the House and $8,488,585,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Construction and Acquisition.--The conference agreement 
provides $894,037,000 for construction and acquisition, instead 
of $722,537,000 as proposed by the House and $734,037,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Funds are provided for the following 
specific construction projects and acquisitions, in the amounts 
indicated:

Alabama:
    Mobile, United States Courthouse....................     $50,000,000
California:
    Calexico, Calexico West, Land Port of Entry.........       9,437,000
Colorado:
    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center Remediation.........       9,962,000
District of Columbia:
    Columbia Plaza......................................     100,000,000
    Southeast Federal Center Remediation................      15,000,000
Florida:
    Miami, FBI Field Office Consolidation...............     190,675,000
Georgia:
    Savannah, United States Courthouse..................       7,900,000
Maine:
    Madawaska, Land Port of Entry.......................      50,127,000
Maryland:
    White Oak, Food and Drug Administration 
      Consolidation.....................................     137,871,000
    Greenbelt, United States Courthouse.................      10,000,000
Pennsylvania:
    Lancaster, United States Courthouse.................       6,500,000
Texas:
    El Paso, Tornillo-Guadalupe, Land Port of Entry.....      91,565,000
    San Antonio, United States Courthouse...............       4,000,000
Utah:
    Salt Lake City, United States Courthouse............     211,000,000

      The conferees understand that the need for a replacement 
courthouse in Yuma, Arizona, as discussed in the Senate report, 
will be addressed with funds previously appropriated.
      Five-Year Construction Plans.--The conferees have 
included bill language that clarifies the requirement that the 
annual budget submission to Congress for GSA contain two 
separate 5-year plans. These plans were required by the Omnibus 
Appropriations Act, 2009 for fiscal year 2010 and thereafter. 
The conferees expect that GSA and the Office of Management and 
Budget will ensure that plans are submitted to Congress 
contemporaneously with the annual budget submission for fiscal 
year 2011 and each year thereafter. Requests for courthouse 
construction projects, including those proposed as lease-
construction projects, shall be included in the 5-year plan for 
Federal construction, and this plan shall reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States.
      Report on Lease Construction.--The conferees reiterate 
language in the Senate report directing GSA and the Judicial 
Conference to submit a joint report to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 120 days of enactment identifying the 
circumstances under which it would be appropriate to provide 
court facilities using a lease-construct strategy.
      Repairs and Alterations.--The conference agreement 
provides $413,776,000 for repairs and alterations, instead of 
$400,276,000 as proposed by the House and $453,776,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Funds are provided for the following 
specific projects, in the amounts indicated:

District of Columbia:
    East Wing Infrastructure Systems Replacement........     $84,500,000
    Eisenhower Executive Office Building Roof 
      Replacement.......................................      15,000,000
    New Executive Office Building.......................      30,276,000
Special Emphasis Programs:
    Fire and Life Safety Program........................      20,000,000
    Energy and Water Retrofit and Conservation Measures.       2,000,000
    Federal High-Performance Green Buildings............       2,000,000
Basic Repairs and Alterations...........................     260,000,000

      While unable to appropriate the full amount needed for 
the East Wing Infrastructure Systems Replacement project, the 
conferees recognize the need for this undertaking and would 
support additional funding if it became available. The 
conferees understand that bids for construction projects have 
recently often been coming in below the budgeted amounts, and 
would invite a transfer/reprogramming request redirecting such 
savings to the East Wing project.
      The conferees are strongly supportive of the special 
emphasis programs for Energy and Water Retrofit and 
Conservation Measures and Federal High-Performance Green 
Buildings. Although this conference report provides less for 
those two programs than appropriated in fiscal year 2009, that 
is only because large amounts are currently available for such 
purposes under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
      The conference agreement does not include the funding 
proposed by the Senate for the Eisenhower Executive Office 
Building Courtyard Replacement.
      Installment Acquisition Payments.--The conference 
agreement includes $140,525,000 for installment acquisition 
payments, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      Rental of Space.--The conference agreement provides 
$4,804,871,000 for rental of space, instead of $4,843,996,000 
as proposed by the House and $4,829,871,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Building Operations.--The conference agreement provides 
$2,290,376,000 for building operations, instead of 
$2,338,126,000 as proposed by the House and $2,330,376,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                           GENERAL ACTIVITIES

                         government-wide policy

      The conference agreement appropriates $59,665,000 for GSA 
Government-wide Policy activities, instead of $63,165,000 
proposed by the House and $61,165,000 proposed by the Senate. 
The agreement does not provide the $1,500,000 requested by the 
President to shift funding for certain expenses of the Federal 
Acquisition Institute from the Acquisition Workforce Training 
Fund to this appropriation.
      Office of Federal High-Performance Green Buildings.--The 
conference agreement, like the Senate bill, does not include 
language proposed by the House providing $3,000,000 for the 
Office of Federal High-Performance Green Buildings. That Office 
and its mission remain a very high priority for the conferees. 
The only reason no new funding is included in this legislation 
is that GSA appears to have obligated little, if any, of the 
amount provided for the Office of Federal High-Performance 
Green Buildings in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act 
(ARRA), and therefore ample carryover balances remain. The 
conferees reiterate the language in the Senate report directing 
GSA to use the funds provided in ARRA to hire the necessary 
staff and ensure that the Office immediately begins fulfilling 
its responsibilities, to submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a detailed expenditure plan within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act, and to report on the obligation of the 
ARRA funds on a monthly basis.
      Study on Pricing of Office Supplies.--The conferees note 
that GSA is authorized to award contracts to private firms 
under terms and conditions that mirror commercial practices for 
commercial supplies and services through its Multiple Award 
Schedule Program. Recently, some Federal agencies have 
announced savings through improvements in the process of 
purchasing office products outside of GSA's schedules. 
Therefore, the conferees direct the Administrator of GSA to 
review the ten largest Federal agencies to (1) determine the 
level of funds spent on office products during fiscal year 2009 
through the GSA schedules and outside of these schedules, (2) 
compare the prices paid through the schedules and outside the 
schedules for representative items within major categories of 
individual office products, and (3) determine the extent to 
which agencies conducted a cost-benefit analysis of alternative 
options. The Administrator shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations its findings not later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act. Additionally, the conferees direct GAO 
to assess the data collected by GSA and report to the 
Committees on Appropriations its assessment, with particular 
attention on the potential for savings.

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $72,881,000 for 
operating expenses of GSA as proposed by the House instead of 
$71,881,000 as proposed by the Senate. Included in this total 
is $1,000,000 for a payment to the Oklahoma City National 
Memorial Foundation as proposed by the House.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $59,000,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General, instead of $60,080,000 as proposed 
by the House and $58,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                       ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $34,000,000 for the 
Electronic Government Fund, instead of $33,000,000 as proposed 
by the House and $35,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. As 
specified in both bills, these funds may be transferred to 
other Federal agencies to carry out the purposes of the 
Electronic Government Fund, but only after a spending plan and 
explanation for each project has been submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations.

               ALLOWANCES AND STAFF FOR FORMER PRESIDENTS

      The conference agreement includes $3,756,000 for 
allowances and staff for former Presidents, as proposed by both 
the House and the Senate.

                     FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND

      The conference agreement appropriates $36,515,000 for 
deposit into the Federal Citizen Services Fund and authorizes 
use of appropriations, revenues and collections in the Fund in 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $61,000,000. These provisions 
are the same as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      Section 510 specifies that funds are available for hire 
of motor vehicles.
      Section 511 authorizes transfers within the Federal 
Buildings Fund, with advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
      Section 512 prohibits use of funds to transmit a fiscal 
year 2011 request for courthouse construction unless the 
request meets design guide standards, reflects the priorities 
in the Judicial Conference 5-year construction plan, and 
includes a standardized courtroom utilization study.
      Section 513 specifies that funds in this Act may not be 
used to increase the amount of occupiable space or provide 
services such as cleaning or security for any agency that does 
not pay the rental charges assessed by GSA.
      Section 514 permits GSA to pay certain construction-
related claims against the Federal Government from savings 
achieved in other projects.
      Section 515 requires that the delineated area of 
procurement for leased space match the approved prospectus, 
unless the Administrator provides an explanatory statement to 
the appropriate congressional committees.
      Section 516 authorizes certain relief and disaster 
assistance organizations to purchase from the Federal supply 
schedules.
      All of these administrative provisions were included in 
both the House and Senate versions of the legislation.

                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $660,000 for a payment 
to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose funding for 
this purpose.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $42,918,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Board as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate. Within the amount provided, $40,339,000 
is a direct appropriation and $2,579,000 is a transfer from the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund to adjudicate 
retirement appeals.

            Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

            MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL TRUST FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $2,500,000 for payment 
to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, instead 
of $2,200,000 as proposed by the House and $3,850,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement reflects the 
new name of the Foundation and the Trust Fund, as specified in 
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation Act (Public 
Law 111-90).

                 ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND

      The conference agreement includes $3,800,000 for payment 
to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund as proposed by the 
House, instead of $3,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $339,770,000 for 
operating expenses of the National Archives and Records 
Administration (NARA), as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.
      The conferees reiterate House language directing NARA to 
report to the Committees within 30 days of enactment on 
information security improvements made or planned, and further 
direct NARA to promptly inform relevant committees of 
jurisdiction when any formal law enforcement investigation is 
commenced into alleged theft of electronic or other materials 
which may contain personally identifying information.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $4,100,000 for NARA's 
Office of Inspector General as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.

                      ELECTRONIC RECORDS ARCHIVES

      The conference agreement provides $85,500,000 for the 
Electronic Records Archives (ERA) project as proposed by both 
the House and the Senate. Of this amount, $61,757,000 is 
available until September 30, 2012. The bill retains the 
directive requiring NARA to submit, and for the Committees on 
Appropriations to approve, a GAO-reviewed spending plan for ERA 
prior to the obligation of multi-year funds.

                        REPAIRS AND RESTORATION

      The conference agreement provides $27,500,000 for repairs 
and restoration as proposed by both the House and the Senate. 
Included in the amount is $17,500,000, as requested by the 
President, for necessary expenses related to the repair and 
renovation of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library in 
Hyde Park, NY, which NARA has listed as its top capital 
improvement priority.

        NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND RECORDS COMMISSION

                             GRANTS PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides $13,000,000 for NARA's 
grants program as proposed by the House, instead of $12,000,000 
as proposed by the Senate. Of the amount provided, $4,500,000, 
as requested, is for the initiative to provide online access to 
the papers of the Founding Fathers. The conference agreement 
does not specify further set-asides within this account.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY

      For the second year, the conference report provides the 
National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) Central Liquidity 
Facility (CLF) the ability to lend, during fiscal year 2010, up 
to the maximum level provided for by section 307(a)(4)(A) of 
the Federal Credit Union Act. This gives the NCUA flexibility 
to assist with credit unions' financial liquidity during the 
current economic downturn. The NCUA will be expected to keep 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations fully 
informed on the activities of the CLF.
      The conference report limits administrative expenses to 
$1,250,000 as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND

      The conference report includes $1,250,000 for the 
Community Development Revolving Loan Fund as proposed by the 
House, instead of $1,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $14,000,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Government Ethics, 
instead of $14,415,000 as proposed by the House and $13,665,000 
as proposed by the Senate.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                  (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $215,708,000 for 
salaries and expenses compared to $211,208,000 as proposed by 
the House and $207,708,000 as proposed by the Senate. Within 
the amount provided, $102,970,000 is a direct appropriation and 
$112,738,000 is a transfer from Office of Personnel Management 
(OPM) trust funds.
      The direct appropriation of $102,970,000 includes 
$5,908,000 to remain available until September 30, 2011 for the 
Enterprise Human Resources Integration project, and $1,364,000 
to remain available until September 30, 2011 for the Human 
Resources Line of Business project.
      The transfer from trust funds of $112,738,000 includes 
$9,300,000 to remain available until September 30, 2011 for the 
cost of implementing the new integrated financial system, and 
$4,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2011 for the 
cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems.
      The conference agreement includes funding for new 
initiatives to expand the recruitment and hiring of veterans 
government-wide, and to streamline the Federal hiring process.
      The conference agreement also includes funding to pilot 
several wellness initiatives for Federal employees in areas 
such as smoking cessation, disease management and prevention, 
and risk assessment, as well as funding to conduct an Employee 
Viewpoint Survey (formerly known as the Human Capital Survey) 
annually instead of every other year as is the current 
practice, and with more comprehensive data analysis.
      The conferees reiterate House report language directing 
that future work on the retirement modernization program move 
forward within the framework of the recommendations made by the 
Government Accountability Office in its April 2009 report (GAO-
09-529) on the subject.
      The conferees reiterate Senate report language directing 
OPM to carry out the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility 
Program and to report to the Committees on Appropriations no 
later than 120 days after enactment of this Act on how the 
mobility program is being used to alleviate the nursing 
shortage and on the demonstrable steps OPM has taken to 
encourage government-employed nurses to teach at accredited 
schools of nursing.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                  (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $24,363,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
instead of $23,576,000 as proposed by the House and $22,564,000 
as proposed by the Senate. Within the amount provided, 
$3,148,000 is a direct appropriation and $21,215,000 is a 
transfer from Office of Personnel Management trust funds. 
Increased funding is provided to cover standard pay adjustments 
for OIG staff and to support increased workload stemming from 
fraudulent background investigations.

      GOVERNMENT PAYMENT FOR ANNUITANTS, EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS

      The conference agreement provides such sums as necessary 
for health benefits payments as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.

       GOVERNMENT PAYMENT FOR ANNUITANTS, EMPLOYEE LIFE INSURANCE

      The conference agreement provides such sums as necessary 
for life insurance payments as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.

        PAYMENT TO CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

      The conference agreement provides such sums as necessary 
for retirement and disability payments as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $18,495,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Special Counsel as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $14,333,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. It does not include 
language proposed by the House requiring any unobligated 
balances remaining at the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to 
be transferred back to the Postal Service Fund.
      Proposed Closings of Postal Facilities.--The conferees 
are aware of considerable public concerns about plans by the 
Postal Service to close or consolidate retail post offices and 
other mail facilities, and believe that the Postal Regulatory 
Commission has an important role to play in evaluating those 
concerns and fostering well-informed decision making. The 
conferees commend the Commission for undertaking its current 
investigation of the national service implications of the 
Postal Service ``Station and Branch Optimization and 
Consolidation Initiative'' and urge the Commission to initiate 
such other proceedings as appropriate to fully evaluate the 
effects of proposed closings and consolidations on service 
levels, costs, postal employees, and the affected communities. 
Among other issues, the Commission should examine whether 
Postal Service actions, including notification and appeal 
procedures, are in accord with applicable law.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $1,500,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties 
Oversight Board as proposed by the Senate, rather than 
$2,000,000 as proposed by the House. The funds shall remain 
available for two years as proposed by the House, instead of 
one year as proposed by the Senate.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference report includes $1,111,000,000 for the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), instead of 
$1,036,000,000 as proposed by the House and $1,126,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference report provides that the SEC Office of 
Inspector General shall receive no less than $4,400,000 as 
proposed by the House, a provision not included in the Senate 
bill.
      The conference report provides that, in addition to 
$16,084,200 derived from prior year unobligated balances, an 
additional $1,094,915,800 shall be derived from offsetting 
collections.
      The SEC's Office of Global Security Risk shall submit 
reports to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
every six months as described in the House and Senate reports 
and ensure that all companies sold on United States exchanges 
operating in State Department-designated terrorist-sponsoring 
states are disclosing such activities to investors.
      The conferees acknowledge efforts to identify ways to 
harmonize oversight of futures and securities products to 
achieve greater protection of investors, ensure market 
integrity, and promote price transparency. The GAO is directed 
to assess the harmonization report issued on October 16, 2009 
jointly by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
and report to Congress not later than March 1, 2010 with 
comments on the report and recommendations on ways to reduce or 
eliminate discrepancies and gaps in oversight, enhance 
regulatory effectiveness and efficiency, and heighten market 
transparency.
      An increase over the requested level is provided to 
support the SEC's performance-based pay system, as well as to 
enhance enforcement, capital market oversight, and investor 
protection activities, including investigations of accounting 
fraud, market manipulation, insider trading, and investment 
scams that target seniors and low-income communities. The SEC 
should also increase its effort to improve oversight of 
investment banking institutions.

                        Selective Service System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $24,275,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Selective Service System, instead 
of $24,400,000 as proposed by the Senate and $24,150,000 as 
proposed by the House.

                     Small Business Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $433,438,000 for the 
salaries and expenses account of the Small Business 
Administration (SBA), instead of $428,387,000 as proposed by 
the House and $444,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Of the amount provided under this heading, $248,088,000 
is for operating expenses of the SBA including funds for an 
additional 80 full-time equivalents to address increased 
workload needs, and $185,350,000 is for non-credit programs. In 
addition, $153,000,000 from the Business Loans Program Account 
and $75,588,200 from the Disaster Loans Program Account may be 
transferred to and merged with the Salaries and Expenses 
account for the administrative expenses related to those 
accounts.
      The conferees direct that no less than the following 
amounts shall be dedicated to the following SBA non-credit 
programs:

Veterans Programs.......................................      $2,500,000
7(j) Technical Assistance Programs......................       3,400,000
Small Business Development Centers......................     113,000,000
SCORE...................................................       7,000,000
Women's Business Centers................................      14,000,000
Women's Business Council................................       1,000,000
Native American Outreach................................       1,250,000
Drug-free Workplace Program.............................       1,000,000
Microloan Technical Assistance..........................      22,000,000
PRIME...................................................       8,000,000
HUBZone.................................................       2,200,000
Entrepreneurial Development Initiative..................      10,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
  Total, non-credit programs............................     185,350,000

      The conferees direct that the amounts provided for SBA's 
non-credit business assistance programs, as specified in the 
table above, shall be administered in the same manner as 
previous years and shall not be reduced, reallocated, or 
reprogrammed to provide additional funds for other programs, 
initiatives, or activities. In addition, the conferees expect 
that the National Ombudsman; the Office of Advocacy, including 
support for the Advocacy Database; international trade 
programs; and the defense transition program receive no less 
than the fiscal year 2009 level of funding.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the Senate increasing from 25 percent to 50 percent for fiscal 
year 2010 the formula specified under section 7(m)(4)(A) of the 
Small Business Act for calculating microloan technical 
assistance grants to lending intermediaries. The conference 
agreement does not include language proposed by the Senate that 
would waive the matching fund requirements for intermediaries 
receiving microloan technical assistance grants.
      The conference agreement includes $10,000,000 for the 
Administrator's Entrepreneurial Development Initiative as 
proposed by the Senate instead of $15,000,000 as proposed by 
the House. The conference agreement does not include language 
proposed by the Senate that would waive section 7(e) of the 
Small Business Act for the purpose of providing grant funding 
in executing this initiative. The conferees modify House report 
language directing SBA to submit a detailed spending plan for 
the Entrepreneurial Development Initiative within 45 days of 
enactment of this Act and that obligation of funds for the 
initiative will be contingent upon approval of such a spending 
plan by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. The 
plan should include a discussion of the strategies and goals of 
the Entrepreneurial Development Initiative and the 
methodologies for selecting funding recipients and assessing 
performance, as requested in the Senate report.
      The conferees reiterate Senate report language strongly 
encouraging SBA to consider funding veterans' business outreach 
centers that have significant experience conducting outreach to 
veterans including those previously receiving Federal funding.
      The conference agreement does not include funding for SBA 
relocation costs. The House and Senate proposed $10,000,000 
associated with a potential move of SBA headquarters to another 
location within Washington, D.C. A decision was made in October 
2009 that SBA will be staying in its current building under a 
new lease, obviating the need to provide relocation costs in 
this Act. The conference agreement does provide funding to 
cover higher space rental and operating costs associated with 
the new lease.
      The conference agreement provides sufficient funds to 
administer small business development and entrepreneurship 
initiatives provided in section 523.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the Senate providing $2,000,000 for the Federal and State 
Technology Partnership Program.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $16,300,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General of the Small Business 
Administration as proposed by both the House and the Senate. An 
additional $1,000,000 is available for transfer into this 
account from the Disaster Loans Program Account.

                 SURETY BOND GUARANTEES REVOLVING FUND

      The conference agreement provides $1,000,000 for this 
account as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                     BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $236,000,000 for the 
Business Loans Program Account as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate. Of the amount provided, $3,000,000 is for the 
cost of direct loans in the microloan program, $80,000,000 is 
for the cost of guaranteed loans as authorized by section 7(a) 
of the Small Business Act, and $153,000,000 is for 
administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs and may be transferred to and merged with 
Salaries and Expenses.

                     DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $78,278,200 for the 
Disaster Loans Program Account instead of $104,000,000 as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. Of the amount 
provided, $1,690,000 is for the cost of guaranteed loans, of 
which $352,357 is for loan guarantees as authorized by section 
42 of the Small Business Act, and $1,337,643 is for loan 
guarantees as authorized by section 12085 of Public Law 110-
246. The remaining $76,588,200 is for administrative expenses 
to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, of which 
$65,278,200 is for direct administrative expenses of loan 
making and servicing to carry out the direct loan program, 
which may be transferred to and merged with Salaries and 
Expenses; $9,000,000 is for indirect administrative expenses 
for the direct loan program, which may be transferred to and 
merged with Salaries and Expenses; $1,000,000 is for the Office 
of Inspector General for audits and reviews of disaster loans 
and the disaster loan programs; and $1,310,000 is for 
administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
programs, which may be transferred to and merged with Salaries 
and Expenses. Any direct loan subsidies required in fiscal year 
2010 will be derived from available unobligated balances.
      The $76,588,200 provided for disaster administrative 
expenses takes into account a November 2009 report from SBA 
regarding actual no-year balances that carried forward from 
fiscal year 2009 into fiscal year 2010. Actual carryforward 
balances for disaster administrative expenses are $41,000,000 
above the carryforward estimates included in the budget 
request. In light of this information, the conference agreement 
reflects a fiscal year 2010 appropriation $25,721,800 below the 
amounts recommended by the House and the Senate. The conferees 
note, however, that when all sources of funding are considered, 
including the higher than anticipated carryforward balances, 
disaster administrative expenses are funded above SBA's fiscal 
year 2010 budget request in order to provide additional 
flexibility in the event fiscal year 2010 funding needs exceed 
the level requested.

        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      Section 520 allows transfers between accounts as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate.
      Section 521 as proposed by the Senate specifies that 
disaster loans issued in Alaska or North Dakota shall be 
administered by the Small Business Administration and shall not 
be sold during fiscal year 2010.
      Section 522 makes a technical correction to Public Law 
111-8.
      Section 523 provides $59,000,000 for small business 
development and entrepreneurship initiatives, including 
programmatic and construction activities, to be awarded as 
follows:
        Project Name                                              Amount
Agriculture & Land-based Training Association, Salinas, CA for 
    Farmworker to Farmer Business Incubator...................  $110,000
Agudath Israel of America, New York, NY Mentoring and training 
    services..................................................   150,000
Alabama Small Business Institute of Commerce, Rainbow City, AL 
    for small business training...............................   100,000
Alabama Technology Network, Birmingham, AL for the Alabama 
    Center for Advanced Woodworking Technology................   350,000
Alaska Manufacturing Extension Partnership for the AMBIT Youth 
    Entrepreneurship Curriculum, Anchorage, AK................   200,000
Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Albuquerque, NM ``Dos 
    Mundos'' small business assistance program................   200,000
Alcorn State University for the Systems Research Institute, MS   250,000
Altoona-Blair County Development Corporation, Altoona, PA for 
    the I-99 Entrepreneurial Institute........................   100,000
American Cities Foundation, Inc., Philadelphia, PA Reaching 
    and Impacting Small Entrepreneurs (Project RISE)..........   225,000
Amoskeag Business Incubator, Manchester, NH...................   120,000
Arkansas State University, Newport, AR for Arkansas Commercial 
    Driver Training Institute.................................   200,000
Baltimore City Schools, Baltimore, MD Career and Technology 
    Pathways..................................................   350,000
Barry University, Miami Shores, FL for community and economic 
    development...............................................   100,000
Benedictine University, Lisle, IL for women's entrepreneurial 
    education and workforce development.......................   250,000
Bennett College for Women, The Center for Women's 
    Entrepreneurship, Greensboro, NC..........................   150,000
Boise State University, Boise, ID for a research and economic 
    development and entrepreneurial initiative................   400,000
Brewer Business and Commerce Park, Brewer, ME................. 1,280,000
Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation, Bronx, NY business 
    training programs.........................................    75,000
Brooklyn Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Brooklyn, NY Business 
    incubator program.........................................    60,000
Buffalo Niagara International Trade Foundation, Buffalo, NY to 
    support small businesses..................................   250,000
Bunker Hill Community College, Boston, MA Workforce 
    Development Initiative for Internationally Educated Nurses   150,000
California State University, Dominguez Hills, Carson, CA for 
    online access to business and other educational programs..   150,000
Center for Economic Growth, Albany, NY Watervliet Innovation 
    Center....................................................   150,000
Cen-Tex African American Chamber of Commerce, Waco, TX Center 
    for Business Excellence...................................   200,000
Central Brooklyn Housing Contractor Association, Brooklyn, NY 
    Business Incubation and Development Program...............   150,000
Central Connecticut State University, for a manufacturing 
    workforce initiative and technical assistance program, New 
    Britain, CT...............................................   150,000
Central Oregon Community College, Bend, OR for a technology 
    education center..........................................   100,000
Chamber South, South Miami, FL to encourage economic 
    production................................................   100,000
Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity, Chittenden 
    Emergency Food Shelf's Community Kitchen Expansion 
    Project, Burlington, VT...................................   125,000
Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc., Phoenix, AZ Buckeye Small 
    Business Incubator........................................   200,000
City of Alcoa, TN for the Pellissippi Research Centre on the 
    Oak Ridge Corridor........................................   750,000
City of Alma, GA for business and infrastructure development..   500,000
City of Bardstown, KY for downtown streetscape economic 
    development...............................................   100,000
City of Berkeley, CA East Bay Green Jobs Project..............   250,000
City of Buffalo, Buffalo clean energy incubator, Buffalo, NY..   117,500
City of College Park, GA Entrepreneurial Development Center...   150,000
City of Jal, renovation of Burke Junior High School to house 
    business ventures, Jal, NM................................    85,000
City of Loma Linda and City of Grand Terrace, CA for an 
    infrastructure expansion project to promote small business   900,000
City of Los Angeles, Port of Los Angeles Technology 
    Advancement Program and Clean Technology Development 
    Center, Los Angeles, CA...................................   250,000
City of Montrose, CO Montrose Higher Education and Technology 
    Park......................................................   200,000
City of Myrtle Beach, SC for the Myrtle Beach International 
    Trade and Conference Center...............................   100,000
City of Palmdale, CA for the South Valley WorkSource Center...   100,000
City of Providence, Department of Planning and Development, 
    Rhode Island Center for Life Sciences, research, 
    development and commercialization, Providence, RI.........   300,000
City of Salem, downtown revitalization ``toolbox'' program, 
    Salem, OR.................................................   200,000
City of San Jose, CA Silicon Valley Minority/Immigrant 
    Business Support Initiative...............................   200,000
City of Santa Rosa, Ilfeld Warehouse business incubator, Santa 
    Rosa, NM..................................................   170,000
City of Valparaiso, IN Entech Innovation Center Tech Park.....   250,000
Cleary University, Howell, MI for a multi-media center........   100,000
Clemson University, Clemson, SC for the Advanced Materials 
    Innovation Center.........................................   100,000
College of Notre Dame of Maryland, for lab facilities, 
    Baltimore, MD.............................................   100,000
Colorado State University, Sustainable Biofuels Development 
    Center, Ft. Collins, CO...................................   250,000
Commerce Lexington, Lexington, KY Central Kentucky Small 
    Business Assistance Initiative............................   200,000
Community Action Committee of the Lehigh Valley, Bethlehem, PA 
    to help small businesses identify and implement energy 
    efficiency improvements...................................   100,000
Community College of Philadelphia, Northeast Regional Center 
    for small business education, growth, and training, 
    Philadelphia, PA..........................................   100,000
Community Economic Development Fund, Small Business Institute, 
    Meriden, CT for training and technical assistance.........   250,000
Community Links Hawaii for planning and development of Oahu 
    Technology and Innovation Park, Oahu, HI..................   250,000
Community Service Society of New York, financial education 
    project, New York, NY.....................................   117,500
Consortium for Worker Education, New York, NY Financial 
    training and guidance programs............................   150,000
Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Delaware Valley, 
    Philadelphia, PA Financial Counseling for Economic 
    Security..................................................    35,000
Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement, Entrepreneurial 
    Development and Government Procurement Center, Honolulu, 
    HI........................................................   300,000
County of Essex, Newark, NJ Resource Center for Small 
    Businesses................................................   205,000
County of Passaic, Paterson, NJ Economic Development 
    Department................................................   125,000
Cuban American National Council New Jersey Regional Office, 
    Union City, NJ Financial Education, Foreclosure Protection 
    and Home Ownership Program................................   100,000
Cuyahoga Community College, veterans outreach and business 
    development program, Cleveland, OH........................   200,000
Dakota College at Bottineau, Entrepreneurial Center for 
    Horticulture, Bottineau, ND...............................   250,000
Delaware Valley Industrial Resource Center for an emerging 
    manufacturers initiative, Philadelphia, PA................   175,000
Delta Foundation, Greenville, MS Mississippi Delta business 
    growth development program................................   150,000
Department of Community Affairs, Division on Women, New Jersey 
    Women's Microbusiness Credit Program, for training and 
    mentoring activities, Trenton, NJ.........................   100,000
Detroit Renaissance, Detroit, MI for Detroit Creative Corridor 
    Center....................................................   200,000
Downtown West Plains, Inc., West Plains, MO for the Ozarks 
    Small Business Incubator..................................   500,000
East Los Angeles Community Union, Los Angeles, CA TELACU 
    Neighborhood Stabilization Corporation....................   500,000
Eastern Washington University for accelerating economic 
    development in rural and underserved communities of the 
    Inland Pacific Northwest, Spokane, WA.....................   250,000
Economic Development Council of Tallahassee/Leon County, Inc., 
    Tallahassee, FL Tallahassee Small Business Incubator......   450,000
Economic Growth Connection of Westmoreland, Greensburg, PA 
    Defense Procurement Assistance Program....................   125,000
El Pajaro Community Development Corporation, Watsonville, CA 
    Commercial Kitchen Business Incubator.....................    90,000
Fairplex Trade and Conference Center, Los Angeles, CA for 
    Pomona Fairplex Trade and Conference Center...............   350,000
First Community Development Corporation (FCDC), Inglewood, CA 
    Computer Lab Resource Center..............................   150,000
Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority, Colorado Drug, Device, and 
    Diagnostic Development Institute, Aurora, CO..............   300,000
Florida Department of Citrus, Lakeland, FL abscission chemical 
    for improved citrus harvesting............................   100,000
Florida Gulf Coast University, Fort Myers, FL for a small 
    business software development program.....................   261,000
Florida Institute of Technology, Florida Advanced Combustion 
    Center, Brevard County, FL................................   200,000
Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL for Activity 
    Based Total Accountability................................   100,000
Foothill Workforce Investment Board, Pasadena, CA for Small 
    Business Assistance Program...............................   150,000
Fort Stockton Economic Development Corporation, Fort Stockton, 
    TX Fort Stockton Small Business Development Program.......   100,000
Girl Scouts of the USA, New York, NY for a national program to 
    improve financial literacy................................   305,875
Grambling State University, Grambling, LA for the Greater 
    North Louisiana Community Development Corporation.........   300,000
Great Falls Development Authority, to support the 
    administrative costs of the Central Montana Growth Fund, 
    Great Falls, MT...........................................   137,500
Greater Des Moines Partnership, Des Moines, IA for the Central 
    Iowa Business Innovation Zone.............................   185,000
Greater Syracuse Chamber of Commerce, Space Alliance 
    Technology Outreach Program (SATOP), Syracuse, NY.........   117,500
Greater Syracuse Chamber of Commerce, Syracuse, NY Clean Tech 
    Startup Camp..............................................   232,500
Hannah Grimes Center, business incubator renovation and 
    expansion, Keene, NH......................................   130,000
Haymarket Center for a workforce development initiative, 
    Chicago, IL...............................................   700,000
Hispanic Business Education & Training, Inc., Oakland, CA for 
    a Hispanic Business Education and Training Program........    50,000
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metro Orlando, FL for Small 
    business training, assistance and outreach................   220,000
HOPE Community Development Corporation for an economic 
    development initiative, Charleston, WV....................   137,500
Housing Options and Geriatric Association Resources, Inc., 
    Bronx, NY Economic and community development program for 
    elderly persons...........................................    75,000
Hudson Valley Agribusiness Development Corporation, Hudson, NY 
    Hudson Valley Food Processing Incubator Facility..........   350,000
Hunter College, New York, NY for the Roosevelt House Institute 
    Public Policy Institute, Financial Literacy Project.......    75,000
I-70 Northwest Development Corporation, St. Louis, MO North 
    St. Louis Community Food and Health Center................   150,000
Idaho TechConnect Inc., Nampa, ID Proof of Concept Center.....   285,000
Illinois Eastern Community Colleges for the Small Business 
    Development Center, Olney, IL.............................   200,000
Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, IL.................   600,000
Illinois Science and Technology Coalition, Chicago, IL 
    Illinois Nanotechnology Collaborative.....................   150,000
Illinois State Library to expand access to Illinois public 
    libraries, Springfield, IL................................   300,000
Illinois State University for the McLean County Business 
    Incubator, Normal, IL.....................................   500,000
Illinois State University, Normal, IL for an export project...   100,000
Illinois Valley Community College, Oglesby, IL Technology and 
    Workforce Development Center..............................   220,000
Indianhead Community Action Agency, Ladysmith, WI Solar 
    Business Revolving Loan Fund..............................   450,000
Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown, IA for 
    an education and training center..........................   500,000
Jackson State University for Economic and Community 
    Development through Heritage Tourism, MS..................   500,000
Kansas World Trade Center for the Wichita EcoPartnership, 
    Wichita, KS...............................................   400,000
Kelley Road Business Park, Orono, ME..........................   345,000
Laredo Community College, Laredo, TX Small Business Center....   150,000
Latin Chamber of Commerce, Hispanic Leadership Program, Las 
    Vegas, NV.................................................   234,858
Lawrence CommunityWorks, Union Crossing Mill Redevelopment, 
    Lawrence, MA..............................................   200,000
Leavenworth Technology and Research Park, Leavenworth, KS.....   300,000
Liberty University, VA, Lynchburg, VA Central Virginia WiMAX 
    broadband internet service for education and economic 
    development--Feasibility Study............................   220,000
Lock Haven University, Lock Haven, PA Small Business 
    Development Center Tax Compliance Resource Program........    50,000
Long Beach Community College District, Long Beach, CA for 
    business training for Watts-Willowbrook...................   150,000
Loring Commerce Centre Infrastructure Development for the 
    Loring Development Authority, Limestone, ME............... 1,000,000
Los Angeles City College Foundation, Los Angeles, CA East 
    Hollywood Entrepreneurial Training and Small Business 
    Program...................................................   150,000
Louisiana Office of Social Entrepreneurship for administrative 
    costs of a business planning initiative, Baton Rouge, LA..   137,500
Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, Credit Counseling 
    Capacity Building, St. Paul, MN...........................   200,000
Macomb County, MI for a business accelerator..................   100,000
Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, New York, NY Foundation for 
    Small business training and assistance related to 
    international opportunities...............................    75,000
Maryland Technology Development Corporation (TEDCO), Columbia, 
    MD Rural Business Innovation Initiative--Eastern Shore....   220,000
Maverick County Development Corporation, Eagle Pass, TX 
    Maverick County Small Business Development Program........   100,000
McNeese State University, Southwest Louisiana Entrepreneurial 
    and Economic Development Center (SEED), Lake Charles, LA..   137,500
MDC Inc., Chapel Hill, NC for services related to small 
    business entrepreneurship.................................   225,000
Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, New York, NY 
    Employment and training programs..........................   150,000
Miami Dade College Institute, Miami, FL for Intermodal 
    Transportation............................................   300,000
Miami-Dade Chamber of Commerce, Miami, FL Technical Assistance 
    and Economic Development Center...........................   150,000
Mississippi Biotechnology Association for Capacity Building 
    for the Mississippi Biotechnology Industry, Ridgeland, MS.   250,000
Mississippi State University for the Entrepreneurship Center 
    to Develop New Entity Creation (ECDEC), MS................   500,000
Mississippi Technology Alliance for the Center for Innovation 
    and Entrepreneurship, MS..................................   850,000
Missouri Chamber Education Foundation to develop a small 
    business technology, training and outreach center, 
    Jefferson City, MO........................................ 1,000,000
Montana State University, Bozeman, MT HTAP: High-Technology 
    Assistance Program........................................   133,000
Montana Technology Venture Center, Bozeman, MT for expansion 
    and operations of the TechRanch next step program.........   137,500
Montana World Trade Center, Missoula, MT for Montana Growth 
    Through Trade.............................................   134,000
Montgomery County, Rockville, MD Green Business Incubator.....   150,000
Mount Hope Housing Company, Inc., Bronx, NY training program..    75,000
Mount Vernon Chamber of Commerce, Mount Vernon, NY Mount 
    Vernon Small Business Incubator...........................   150,000
National Association of Development Organizations, Washington, 
    DC for Small Business Development and Entrepreneurial 
    Enhancement Initiative....................................   232,500
National Latino Education Institute, Chicago, IL Vocational 
    Training Initiative.......................................   150,000
National Urban League, New York, NY Restore Our Homes-
    Homeownership Center in Chicago...........................   100,000
Nebraska Community Foundation, HomeTown Competitiveness, 
    Lincoln, NE...............................................   275,000
Neighborhood Development Center, Midtown Global Market 
    business technical assistance, St. Paul, MN...............   200,000
Neighborhood Development Center, St. Paul, MN University 
    Avenue Business Preparation Collaborative.................   200,000
Nevada Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology (NCET), 
    small business and entrepreneurship development, NV.......   234,858
Nevada Small Business Development Center, for Imagine 2012, a 
    Hispanic business development initiative, Reno, NV........   234,859
New Agrarian Center, Oberlin, OH Urban Agriculture Business 
    Development...............................................   125,000
New Orleans Redevelopment Authority, New Orleans, LA to 
    encourage commercial investments..........................   250,000
New York City College of Technology, Brooklyn, NY Brooklyn 
    Small Business Development Center.........................   115,000
New York College of Environmental Science & Forestry, 
    Syracuse, NY for the New York Forest Community Economic 
    Assistance Program........................................   100,000
New York Industrial Retention Network, New York, NY Technical 
    assistance and financing for manufacturers for energy 
    conservation projects.....................................    60,000
Newport Chamber of Commerce, Middletown, RI Industrial Park of 
    Tiverton..................................................    80,000
North Carolina Biotechnology Center, Research Triangle Park, 
    NC Entrepreneurship and Research and Development Training 
    Initiative................................................   130,000
North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center, Raleigh, NC 
    for a Rural Business Finance Program......................   250,000
North Carolina School of the Arts/Winston-Salem State 
    University, The Center for Design Innovation, Winston-
    Salem, NC.................................................   100,000
Northeast Alabama Community College, Rainsville, AL for 
    industrial systems technology and machining training......   335,000
Northeast Entrepreneur Fund, Virginia, MN Greenstone Group....   200,000
Northeast Ohio Technology Coalition, Cleveland, OH for Tech 
    Leaders II: Job Creation through Industry Cluster 
    Development...............................................   250,000
Northern Arizona Center, Flagstaff, AZ for Emerging 
    Technologies for the Arizona Clean Energy Accelerator.....   220,000
Northern Dauphin Revitalization Project, Inc., Elizabethville, 
    PA job creation initiative................................   150,000
Northern Virginia Community College for retraining displaced 
    workers in Geographic Information Systems, Richmond, VA...   200,000
Northside Economic Opportunity Network (NEON), Minneapolis, MN 
    North Minneapolis Small Business Capacity Building Program   150,000
Northwest Pennsylvania Incubator Association for an incubator 
    project, Erie County, PA..................................   100,000
NYS Small Business Development Center at Rockland County 
    Community College, Suffern, NY for training for displaced 
    workers to start or expand small business.................   125,000
Oakland African American Chamber of Commerce Foundation, 
    Oakland, CA for Economic Vitality of Minority Businesses 
    in Oakland................................................    50,000
Oakland Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, Oakland, CA for 
    Economic Vitality of Asian Minority Business Program......    50,000
Operation Get Ahead, Hempstead, NY for job readiness and 
    employment programs.......................................   150,000
Operation New Hope, Inc., Jacksonville, FL for a prisoner re-
    entry job training program that works with small business 
    owners....................................................   790,000
Our Lady of the Lake University, San Antonio, TX Hispanic 
    Leadership and Entrepreneurship Training Institute........   100,000
Pace University Lienhard School of Nursing, White Plains, NY 
    nursing workforce education and training initiative.......   125,000
Pasadena City College, Pasadena, CA Small Business and 
    Entrepreneur Assistance Program...........................   150,000
Philadelphia Development Partnership, Philadelphia, PA 
    Southeastern Pennsylvania Micro Business Center...........    65,000
Phillips County Economic Development for a Entrepreneur 
    Business Enhancement Program (EBEP), Phillips County, KS..   300,000
Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners, Clearwater, FL 
    for the Business Assistance Partnership Network...........   262,000
Port of Bremerton, Port Orchard, WA for services to 
    sustainable energy and other ``green'' small businesses...   250,000
Port of Clarkston, Asotin County Industrial Park 
    infrastructure completion, Asotin County, WA..............   350,000
Portland Community College, sustainable careers for a green 
    economic recovery, Portland, OR...........................   200,000
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, NY ``Green'' Community Career & 
    Business Training Center..................................    85,000
Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD Small Business 
    Initiative................................................   150,000
Progreso Latino, Central Falls, RI Small business capacity 
    building assistance.......................................   120,000
Project Ezrah Needs, Inc., Englewood, NJ Employment and 
    financial counseling and assistance.......................   100,000
Prospera (Gallatin Valley Development Corporation), 
    Accelerated Entrepreneur Program, Bozeman, MT.............   200,000
Rhode Island School of Design and Brown University, 
    Partnership for Sustainable Development/Rhode Island 
    Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (RI-CIE), for 
    technical assistance to small businesses on green product 
    design and marketing and on developing and commercializing 
    innovative products and services, Providence, RI..........   150,000
River District Association, Rockford, IL to develop and 
    recruit small businesses..................................   100,000
Rural Business Energizer Program, Milbridge, ME...............   250,000
Rural Enterprises of Oklahoma, Inc, for a Women and Veteran's 
    Business Resource Center at Seminole State College, 
    Durant, OK................................................   200,000
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Jersey urban 
    entrepreneurship development initiative, New Brunswick, NJ   271,050
SEKTDA, Somerset, KY for economic and small business 
    development in Southern and Eastern Kentucky..............   685,000
Shawnee Community College for the Small Business Development 
    Center, Ullin, IL.........................................   200,000
Souris Basin Regional Planning Council, North Dakota REAP 
    Zones, ND.................................................   300,000
South Dakota Rural Enterprise, Dakota Rising for an 
    entrepreneur development system, SD.......................   250,000
Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation, 
    Brooklyn, NY Plan Ahead Brooklyn..........................    80,000
Southwest Georgia United Empowerment Zone, Inc. for 
    Capitalization and overhead of Community Development 
    Financial Institution, Vienna, GA.........................   100,000
Southwestern Adventist University, Keene, TX Entrepreneurship 
    Resources Center..........................................   200,000
Suffolk County Community College, Brentwood, NY Green 
    Technology Workforce Initiative...........................   200,000
SUNY Fredonia, Fredonia, NY small business incubator..........   150,000
Texas State University System, San Marcos, TX Center for 
    Entrepreneurial Action....................................   150,000
The Bi-National Sustainability Laboratory (BNSL), El Paso, TX 
    Partnership for Innovation and Security...................   150,000
The Bodega Association of the United States, Inc., New York, 
    NY for education, training and other small business 
    assistance................................................   200,000
The Citizens Advice Bureau, Bronx, NY for economic and 
    community development programs for homeless adults........   150,000
The Export Consortium, Columbia, SC The I-95 Corridor Project.   150,000
The Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, Pittsburgh, PA for 
    the Tech Belt Biosciences Initiative......................   100,000
The Progress Fund, Greensburg, PA Technical Assistance for 
    Small Businesses..........................................   125,000
The University of Mississippi for the Technology 
    Commercialization Initiative, Oxford, MS..................   250,000
The University of Southern Mississippi for the Early Stage 
    Entrepreneur and Commercialization Development, 
    Hattiesburg, MS...........................................   500,000
Thomas More College, Crestview Hills, KY for training programs 
    in health care management.................................   100,000
Thorpe Family Residence, Inc. (TFR), Bronx, NY for economic 
    and community development, residential services programs 
    and capital costs.........................................    75,000
Township of Woodbridge, NJ for the Pennval Road Green 
    Technology Incubator......................................   250,000
Uhlich Children's Advantage Network for job training, 
    placement and retention services, Chicago, IL.............   400,000
UMASS Dartmouth, Fall River, MA Advanced Technical & 
    Manufacturing Center......................................   325,000
United Way for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit, MI Ex-Offender 
    Entrepreneurship Program..................................   250,000
University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for the Preparing the 
    Workforce of the Future project........................... 1,000,000
University of Alaska, Small Business Development Center, 
    Ketchikan, AK.............................................   350,000
University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Small Business 
    Innovation Center, Little Rock, AR........................   275,000
University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR for the Arkansas 
    Research and Technology Park..............................   225,000
University of Connecticut for the Avery Point Technology 
    Center, Groton, CT........................................   200,000
University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT Farmington Technology 
    Incubation Center.........................................   150,000
University of Delaware, Newark, DE for the Delaware Small 
    Business and Technology Development Center................   350,000
University of Georgia, Public Service and Outreach, Athens, GA 
    for an applied research demonstration project to bolster 
    workforce development.....................................   100,000
University of Guam, Mangilao, GU Center for Regional Economic 
    Development...............................................   150,000
University of Maryland-Baltimore BioPark, Baltimore, MD.......   100,000
University of Memphis, TN for an entrepreneurial training 
    program...................................................   685,000
University of Missouri System, Columbia, MO for the Extension 
    Community Economic and Entrepreneurial program............   299,000
University of Nebraska at Omaha, NE Micro-Enterprise Center 
    for Information Technology Development....................   250,000
University of Northern Iowa for MyEntreNet, a national rural 
    entrepreneurship development system, IA...................   250,000
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC Innovista Center 
    for Entrepreneurial Development...........................   100,000
University of Southern Maine for the Science Technology 
    Research Center, Portland, ME.............................   850,000
University of Texas at Brownsville, TX Global Marketing and 
    Logistics Certification Program...........................   150,000
University of Toledo, Toledo, OH Renewable Energy Business 
    Incubator communication infrastructure....................    75,000
University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL for the Turnaround 
    Business Assistance Program...............................   262,000
University of West Georgia, Carrollton, GA for a small 
    business incubator........................................   100,000
University of Wisconsin, Whitewater, WI Small Business 
    Development Center........................................   150,000
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee for business development 
    related to clean water technologies, Milwaukee, WI........   250,000
Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, economic development 
    center expansion, Boston, MA..............................   200,000
Urban League of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA for the Urban 
    League Entrepreneurship Center............................   150,000
Valencia County IT program, upgrade and training, Valencia 
    County, NM................................................   145,000
Vermont Businesses for Social Responsibility, the 50 for 25 
    Demonstration Project, Burlington, VT.....................    50,000
Vermont Community Colleges, Waterbury, VT Career Readiness and 
    Supervision Certification.................................   150,000
Vermont Farms Association for an agritourism best practices 
    and standards project, Rochester, VT......................    75,000
Vermont Small Business Development Center, technical 
    assistance to high-tech small businesses and emerging 
    businesses, Randolph, VT..................................   250,000
Village of Olympia Fields, Olympia Fields, IL South Suburban 
    Coalition Economic Development Demonstration Project......   100,000
Virginia's Center for Innovative Technology, Mine safety 
    technology and communication improvements, Herndon, VA....   200,000
Wayne State University, Detroit, MI Law School Small Business 
    Clinic....................................................   200,000
West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester, PA 
    Entrepreneurial Leadership Center.........................   150,000
West Jefferson Medical Center, Marrero, LA Workforce Training 
    and Development Initiative................................   100,000
West Virginia Northern Community College, Center for Economic 
    and Workforce Advancement, Weirton, WV....................   137,500
Western Illinois University for the Small Business Development 
    Center, Macomb, IL........................................   400,000
Western Kentucky University Bowling Green Data Center, Bowling 
    Green, KY................................................. 1,100,000
Western Massachusetts Enterprise Fund, Holyoke, MA Financial 
    and Technical Assistance for Development Enterprises......   250,000
Western Nevada Development District, Carson City, NV to 
    promote small business development efforts................   250,000
Western Reserve Port Authority, Vienna, OH Western Reserve 
    Economic Development Initiative...........................   200,000
Western Reserve Resource Conservation and Development Council, 
    Painesville, OH for a green job and watershed management 
    training program..........................................   150,000
Women At Work, Pasadena, CA Career Technology Training for 
    Low-Income Women..........................................   150,000
Women's Business Development Center, Stamford, CT for 
    entrepreneurial small business training and assistance....   200,000
World Trade Center Institute Delaware, for the export 
    assistance webinar series for business education, 
    Wilmington, DE............................................    50,000
YMCA of Long Island, Inc., Holtsville, NY Diversity Training 
    Program at the Brookhaven-Roe YMCA........................   100,000

                      United States Postal Service

                   PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND

      The conference agreement provides $118,328,000 for a 
payment to the Postal Service Fund, of which $89,328,000 is an 
advance appropriation for fiscal year 2011 to continue free 
mail for the blind and for overseas voting materials, and of 
which $29,000,000 is for the annual repayment of revenue 
foregone as required by law. These provisions are the same as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes provisions directing 
that mail for the blind and for overseas voting shall continue 
to be free and that six-day delivery and rural mail delivery 
shall continue at not less than the 1983 level. Further, it 
includes language prohibiting use of funds in this Act to 
charge a fee for providing information to child support 
enforcement programs or to consolidate or close small rural and 
other small post offices. All of these provisions were also 
contained in the House and Senate bills.
      Closings of Postal Facilities.--Numerous concerns and 
criticisms have been brought to the attention of the conferees 
regarding Postal Service plans to close or otherwise 
consolidate various retail and mail handling facilities. The 
conferees believe that the Postal Regulatory Commission is an 
appropriate forum for evaluating these proposals and the 
attendant concerns and have urged that the Commission take 
appropriate action to do so in language included under that 
heading.
      In addition, the conferees direct the Government 
Accountability Office to update its previous studies regarding 
Postal Service initiatives to realign its mail processing 
network, including proposed closures or consolidations of area 
mail processing facilities, and to report to the Committees on 
Appropriations and other appropriate congressional committees 
not later than 6 months after enactment of this Act. GAO's 
study should address the criteria used in selecting facilities 
for closure or consolidation, whether those criteria are being 
applied reasonably and consistently in particular cases, the 
adequacy of efforts to communicate and consult with affected 
communities and stakeholders, and the quality of efforts to 
evaluate the results of closures and consolidations.
      Financial Condition of the Postal Service.--The conferees 
are concerned about the financial condition of the Postal 
Service. In fiscal year 2009, the Postal Service posted a net 
loss of $3.8 billion that would have totaled $7.8 billion, had 
Congress not reduced the Postal Service's retiree health 
benefits payment by $4 billion. Significant declines in mail 
volume, exacerbated by the struggling economy, have contributed 
to the most recent Postal Service financial crisis.
      The conferees applaud the Postal Service for its efforts 
to reduce costs. In fiscal year 2009, the Postal Service 
reduced its operating expenses by $6.1 billion. These cost-
cutting efforts must continue in close coordination with 
stakeholders and with careful consideration of the effect 
proposed cuts may have on service and volume.
      Despite cost-cutting efforts, the financial condition of 
the Postal Service remains dire. The conferees understand that 
the Postal Service has requested legislative relief from the 
requirement that the Postal Service pre-fund a significant 
portion of its future retiree health benefits through the end 
of fiscal year 2016. Congress reduced the fiscal year 2009 
payment from $5.4 billion to $1.4 billion. The Postal Service 
continues to seek a reduction or elimination of future mandated 
payments.
      The conferees understand that both the Postal Service 
Inspector General (IG) and the Postal Regulatory Commission 
(PRC) have reviewed the payment stream under the Postal 
Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 (PAEA). The IG 
concluded that the current schedule would result in an 
overpayment to the retirement fund by the end of fiscal year 
2016, and the PRC study concluded that the unfunded liability 
would not be as high as originally estimated. Because some 
experts, including OPM, have expressed concerns about the 
assumptions made in the Postal Service IG and PRC reports, the 
conferees urge the Postal Service to coordinate with OPM and 
OMB to develop a fiscally responsible legislative proposal, for 
consideration by the appropriate congressional committees, that 
would grant a limited measure of relief from the PAEA 
requirements to pre-fund retiree health benefits. These 
proposals should consider: (1) whether the PAEA-mandated stream 
of future payments overfunds through fiscal year 2016 the 
anticipated liability of the Postal Service for future retiree 
health benefits, (2) whether modifications to the mandated 
payments could meet the unliquidated liability goals contained 
in the PAEA, and (3) whether a decrease in mandated payments 
will reduce the incentive of the Postal Service to continue to 
cut additional costs.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $244,397,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General, as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate. It does not include language proposed by the House 
requiring any unobligated balances remaining at the end of 
fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to be transferred back to the Postal 
Service Fund.

                        United States Tax Court

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $49,241,000 for 
salaries and expenses of the United States Tax Court as 
proposed by the Senate, instead of $49,242,000 as proposed by 
the House.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

      Section 601 prohibits paying expenses or otherwise 
compensating non-Federal parties in regulatory or adjudicatory 
proceedings funded in this Act.
      Section 602 prohibits obligations beyond the current 
fiscal year and prohibits transfers of funds unless expressly 
so provided herein.
      Section 603 limits consulting service expenditures to 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public 
record, with exceptions.
      Section 604 prohibits funds from being transferred to any 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
without express authority provided in this or any other 
appropriations Act.
      Section 605 prohibits the use of funds to engage in 
activities that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 
of the 1930 Tariff Act.
      Section 606 prohibits funds from being expended unless 
the recipient agrees to comply with the Buy American Act.
      Section 607 prohibits funding to a person or entity 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act.
      Section 608 provides reprogramming authority and requires 
agencies to submit financial plans to the House and Senate 
Appropriations Committees.
      Section 609 provides that not to exceed 50 percent of 
unobligated balances from salaries and expenses may remain 
available for certain purposes.
      Section 610 provides that no funds may be used by the 
Executive Office of the President to request any official 
background investigation from the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation unless the person has given consent or there are 
national security circumstances.
      Section 611 requires that cost accounting standards not 
apply to a contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
Program.
      Section 612 permits the Office of Personnel Management to 
accept funds regarding the nonforeign area cost of living 
allowances.
      Section 613 prohibits the expenditure of funds for 
abortions under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
      Section 614 provides an exemption from section 613 if the 
life of the mother is in danger or the pregnancy is a result of 
an act of rape or incest.
      Section 615 waives restrictions on the purchase of non-
domestic articles, materials, and supplies in the case of 
acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology.
      Section 616 prohibits the acceptance by any regulatory 
agency or commission funded by this Act, or by their officers 
or employees, of payment or reimbursement for travel, 
subsistence, or related expenses from any person or entity (or 
their representative) that engages in activities regulated by 
such agency or commission.
      Section 617 provides authority for the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board to obligate funds for a scholarship 
program.
      Section 618 rescinds $1,500,000 in unobligated balances 
for the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Section 619 defines ``payment of cash in advance'' for 
purposes of section 908(b)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and 
Export Enhancement Act of 2000.
      Section 620 revises the Federal and District of Columbia 
Government Real Property Act of 2006 to advance the date for 
GSA to transfer the Old Naval Hospital to the District to not 
later than 60 days after date of enactment of this Act, as 
proposed by the House.
      Section 621 permits the SEC and CFTC to fund a joint 
advisory committee to advise on emerging regulatory issues, 
notwithstanding section 708 of this Act. This provision was not 
included in either the House or Senate bills.
      Section 622 provides that projects contained in the House 
report that are considered congressional earmarks for purposes 
of clause 9 of House of Representatives rule XXI, when intended 
to be awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under a 
full and open competition. This provision was not included in 
either the House or Senate bills.
      The above provisions were included in similar form in 
both the House and Senate unless otherwise noted.
      The conference agreement does not include House section 
619 prohibiting the use of funds in this Act to implement or 
enforce section 101(a) of the Consumer Product Safety 
Improvement Act (CPSIA) of 2008 in regard to youth motorized 
off-highway vehicles. The conferees note that off-highway 
vehicles manufactured and sold during fiscal year 2010 are not 
subject to the strict lead limits of the CPSIA. The conferees 
are aware that the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) 
granted a stay of enforcement of CPSIA section 101(a) for 
certain components of those vehicles until May 1, 2011, and 
that CPSC is requiring compliance plans from industry that will 
indicate how products will be modified to comply with the lead 
standard as well as which parts have high lead content. The 
conferees recognize that practical issues exist in applying the 
CPSIA to these and certain other products, and address the 
issue in the CPSC account under title V.
      The conference agreement does not include section 901 of 
the House bill concerning first-class travel by Federal 
employees. The conferees support Federal regulations 
stipulating that employees of Federal departments and agencies 
must use coach-class accommodations for official business 
travel except as provided under sections 301-10.123 and 301-
10.124 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The 
House language was redundant to those regulations.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES, AND CORPORATIONS

      Section 701 requires all agencies have a written policy 
for ensuring a drug-free workplace.
      Section 702 sets specific limits on the cost of passenger 
vehicles with exceptions for police, heavy duty, electric 
hybrid and clean fuels vehicles.
      Section 703 makes appropriations available for quarters/
cost-of-living allowances.
      Section 704 modifies provisions proposed by the House and 
the Senate that prohibit the use of appropriated funds to 
compensate officers or employees of the Federal Government in 
the continental United States unless they are citizens of the 
United States or qualify under other specified exceptions. This 
provision eliminates the differential treatment of individuals 
by country of origin and excepts from the prohibition 
individuals who are lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
and are seeking United States citizenship.
      Section 705 ensures that appropriations made available to 
any department or agency for space, services and rental charges 
shall also be available for payment to the General Services 
Administration.
      Section 706 allows the use of receipts from the sale of 
materials for acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, 
environmental management programs and other Federal employee 
programs as appropriate.
      Section 707 allows funds for administrative expenses of 
government corporations and certain agencies to also be 
available for rent in the District of Columbia, services under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and the objects specified under this head.
      Section 708 prohibits funds for interagency financing of 
boards (with exception), commissions, councils, committees or 
similar groups to receive multi-agency funding without prior 
approval.
      Section 709 precludes funds for regulations which have 
been disapproved by joint resolution.
      Section 710 sets ceilings on pay rates for certain 
Federal employees for fiscal year 2010.
      Section 711 limits the amount of funds that can be used 
for redecoration of offices under certain circumstances to 
$5,000, unless advance notice is transmitted to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
      Section 712 allows for interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications 
initiatives.
      Section 713 requires agencies to certify that a Schedule 
C appointment was not created solely or primarily to detail the 
employee to the White House.
      Section 714 prohibits the payment of any employee who 
prohibits, threatens, prevents or otherwise penalizes another 
employee from communicating with Congress.
      Section 715 prohibits Federal employee training not 
directly related to the performance of official duties.
      Section 716 prevents funds from being used to implement 
or enforce non-disclosure agreement policies unless certain 
provisions are included.
      Section 717 prohibits executive branch agencies from 
using funds for propaganda or publicity purposes in support or 
defeat of legislative initiatives.
      Section 718 prohibits any Federal agency from disclosing 
an employee's home address to any labor organization, absent 
employee authorization or court order.
      Section 719 prohibits funds to be used to provide non-
public information such as mailing or telephone lists to any 
person or organization outside the government without the 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
      Section 720 prohibits the use of funds for propaganda and 
publicity purposes not authorized by Congress.
      Section 721 directs agency employees to use official time 
in an honest effort to perform official duties.
      Section 722 authorizes the use of funds to finance an 
appropriate share of the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory 
Board administrative costs.
      Section 723 authorizes the transfer of funds to GSA to 
finance various government-wide initiatives in financial 
management, information technology, human capital, procurement, 
and performance improvement, under certain conditions.
      Section 724 permits breastfeeding in a Federal building 
or on Federal property if the woman and child are authorized to 
be there.
      Section 725 permits interagency funding of the National 
Science and Technology Council and requires OMB to provide a 
report on the budget and resources of the National Science and 
Technology Council.
      Section 726 requires that the Federal forms that are used 
in distributing Federal funds must indicate the agency 
providing the funds, the Federal Domestic Assistance Number, 
and the amount provided.
      Section 727 prohibits the use of funds to monitor 
personal information relating to the use of Federal Internet 
sites to collect, review, or create any aggregate list that 
includes personally identifiable information relating to access 
to or use of any Federal Internet site of such agency.
      Section 728 requires health plans participating in the 
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program to provide 
contraceptive coverage and provides exemptions to certain 
religious plans.
      Section 729 recognizes the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency as the 
official anti-doping agency for Olympic, Pan American and 
Paralympic sport in the United States.
      Section 730 allows funds for official travel to be used 
by departments and agencies, if consistent with OMB and Budget 
Circular A-126, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
      Section 731 prohibits funds for implementation of OPM 
regulations limiting detailees to the Legislative Branch or 
implementing limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional 
Fellowship Program.
      Section 732 restricts the use of funds for Federal law 
enforcement training facilities with an exception for the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center.
      Section 733 prohibits funds for E-Government initiatives 
sponsored by OMB prior to 15 days following submission of a 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
receipt of the Committees' approval to transfer funds. The 
section also prohibits funds for new E-Government initiatives 
without the explicit approval of the Committees.
      Section 734 provides authority to transfer funds between 
agencies to ensure the uninterrupted, continuous operation of 
the Midway Atoll Airfield.
      Section 735 prohibits funds to begin or announce a study 
or public-private competition regarding conversion to 
contractor performance pursuant to OMB Circular A-76.
      Section 736 prohibits executive branch agencies from 
creating prepackaged news stories that are broadcast or 
distributed in the United States unless the story includes a 
clear notification within the text or audio of that news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
      Section 737 prohibits funds from being used in 
contravention of the Privacy Act or associated regulations.
      Section 738 requires agencies to evaluate the 
creditworthiness of an individual before issuing a government 
travel charge card and prohibits agencies from issuing a 
government travel charge card to individuals who have an 
unsatisfactory credit history.
      Section 739 requires OMB to submit a crosscut budget 
report on Great Lakes restoration activities not later than 45 
days after the submission of the budget of the President to 
Congress.
      Section 740 prohibits funds in this or any other Act to 
be used for Federal contracts with inverted corporations, 
unless the contract preceded this Act or the Secretary grants a 
waiver in the interest of national security.
      Section 741 prohibits agencies from using funds to 
implement regulations changing the competitive areas under 
reductions-in-force for Federal employees.
      Section 742 repeals section 748 of division D of the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) to permit 
the President to modify or replace Executive Order 13423 with a 
new executive order, but it must achieve equal or better 
environmental and energy results.
      Section 743 creates an annual requirement for every 
civilian agency to compile an inventory of service contracts 
performed for, or on behalf of, the agency during the prior 
fiscal year. In the absence of complete and reliable 
information on the extent of their reliance on service 
contractors, Federal agencies are not well-equipped to 
determine whether they have the right balance of contractor and 
in-house resources needed to accomplish their missions. This 
section requires agencies to review the contents of the 
inventory and report on actions taken and requires the 
Government Accountability Office to provide a series of reports 
on the implementation of the requirements in this section. It 
also modifies or replaces several provisions contained in the 
House and the Senate bills relating to tabulating the size of 
the Federal Government's contractor workforce.
      Section 744 modifies Senate section 736 to provide that 
the adjustment in rates of basic pay for employees under 
statutory pay systems taking effect in fiscal year 2010 shall 
be an increase of 2 percent as recommended by the President and 
supported in the House bill. The conference agreement provides 
for a base pay adjustment and a locality pay adjustment.
      Section 745 makes a technical correction to section 751 
of division D of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public 
Law 111-8).
      Section 746 clarifies references to ``this Act''.
      Section 747 establishes a disclosure and arbitration 
process to determine whether dealers that had their franchise 
agreements terminated or not assumed by a successor company 
should be added to dealer networks of automobile manufacturers 
partially owned by the Federal Government. This provision is a 
substitute for language contained in the House bill which also 
addressed concerns regarding terminated auto dealers. The 
Senate had no comparable provision.
      The conferees believe that it is in the national interest 
that the United States automobile industry regain profitability 
and maintain sufficient dealerships to meet consumer demand. 
Evidence obtained in numerous Congressional hearings in 2009 
demonstrates that automobile dealerships are integral parts of 
their local economy and provide millions of direct and indirect 
jobs in the United States. Automobile dealers are essential to 
the success of automobile manufacturers because they facilitate 
distribution, sales, and servicing of hundreds of millions of 
vehicles annually. It is also apparent to Congress that high-
performing, historically profitable, and experienced automobile 
dealers with longstanding relationships with their customers 
are best positioned to help automobile manufacturers succeed 
financially. It is in the best interest of automobile 
manufacturers, the automotive industry, dealers, and the public 
to have a competitive and viable automobile distribution 
network throughout the country, including in urban, suburban, 
and rural areas. It is in the interest of the local economies, 
the national economy, and the economic recovery to preserve 
successful small businesses.
      The conferees believe that this procedure will best 
protect the due process rights and property interests of all 
parties, and safeguard the economic public interest, including 
the substantial taxpayer investment in this critical industry. 
The approach taken by the conference agreement provides for an 
independent arbitrator to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the 
merits of each dealer's request to be added to the automobile 
manufacturer's dealer network. By doing so, the Conferees 
expect that this policy will strengthen this key industry, 
bolster the nation's economic recovery, and benefit communities 
across the country.
      The conference agreement would permit covered 
manufacturers and dealers to also, where they both prefer, to 
use voluntary negotiation outside the arbitration process where 
possible, to resolve issues of possible dispute, including 
equitable compensation.
      The above provisions were included in similar form in 
both the House and Senate unless otherwise noted.
      The conference report does not include House section 744 
directing the Attorney General to transmit documents to 
Congress concerning notification of Miranda rights to captured 
foreign persons suspected of terrorism. The conferees 
understand that this issue has been addressed in the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-
84).

                               TITLE VIII

                General Provisions--District of Columbia

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes the following general 
provisions for the District of Columbia:
      Section 801 specifies that an appropriation for a 
particular purpose or object shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object.
      Section 802 authorizes appropriations for travel and dues 
of organizations.
      Section 803 allows the use of local funds for making 
refunds or paying judgments against the District of Columbia 
government.
      Section 804 prohibits the use of Federal funds for 
propaganda designed to support or defeat legislation before 
Congress or any state legislature, but allows the District of 
Columbia to use local funds to lobby on any matter.
      Section 805 sets out reprogramming procedures for Federal 
funds.
      Section 806 provides that appropriations under the Act 
shall be applied to objects for which the appropriation was 
made.
      Section 807 prohibits the use of Federal funds for the 
salaries and expenses of a Shadow U.S. Senator or U.S. 
Representative.
      Section 808 places restrictions on the use of District of 
Columbia government vehicles.
      Section 809 prohibits the use of Federal funds for a 
petition or civil action which seeks to require voting rights 
for the District of Columbia in Congress.
      Section 810 allows the District of Columbia to use local 
funds for needle exchange programs and allows the use of 
Federal funds for needle exchange programs provided that 
District health or law enforcement officials do not object. The 
House bill placed detailed geographic restrictions on the sites 
where needle exchange programs could be operated using either 
local or Federal funds, while the Senate bill prohibited use of 
Federal funds but did not restrict local funds.
      Section 811 concerns a ``conscience clause'' on 
legislation that pertains to contraceptive coverage by health 
insurance plans.
      Section 812 requires an annual report on crime, access to 
substance abuse treatment, management of parolees, education, 
rat abatement and indicators of child well-being as proposed by 
the Senate.
      Section 813 prohibits the use of Federal funds to 
legalize or reduce penalties associated with the possession, 
use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under the 
Controlled Substances Act (or any tetrahydrocannabinols 
derivative) as proposed by the House.
      Section 814 prohibits the use of Federal funds for 
abortion unless certain circumstances apply.
      Section 815 requires the CFO to submit a revised 
operating budget no later than 30 calendar days after the 
enactment of this Act for agencies the CFO certifies as 
requiring a reallocation in order to address unanticipated 
program needs.
      Section 816 requires the CFO to submit a revised 
operating budget for D.C. Public Schools, no later than 30 
calendar days after the enactment of this Act, that aligns 
schools' budgets to actual enrollment.
      Section 817 authorizes the transfer of local funds to 
capital and enterprise funds.
      Section 818 specifies that references to this Act in this 
title or title IV, are treated as referring only to the 
provisions of this title and title IV.
      The above provisions were included in similar form in 
both the House and Senate unless otherwise noted.

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Following is a list of congressional earmarks and 
congressionally directed spending items (as defined in clause 9 
of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, respectively) 
included in the conference report or the accompanying joint 
statement of managers, along with the name of each Senator, 
House Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who submitted 
a request to the Committee of jurisdiction for each item so 
identified. Neither the conference report nor the joint 
statement of managers contains any limited tax benefits or 
limited tariff benefits as defined in the applicable House or 
Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of rule XXI of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives, none of the congressional 
earmarks listed below were committed to the conference 
committee on H.R. 3288. However, all following items were 
either (1) included in the Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2010 as passed by the House 
(H.R. 3170) or as reported in the Senate (S. 1432), or (2) in 
the report of the committee of either House on H.R. 3170 or S. 
1432.

                                                                            FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                 Requester(s)
           Agency                                        Project                                  Amount     -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                    Administration                   House                      Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NARA                         FDR Presidential Library, New York                                  $17,500,000  The President               Hinchey; Murphy (NY)        Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Calexico West Land Port of Entry, California                         $9,437,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Columbia Plaza, District of Columbia                               $100,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Denver Federal Center Remediation, Colorado                          $9,962,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          East Wing Infrastructure Systems Replacement, District of           $84,500,000  The President
                              Columbia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Eisenhower Executive Office Building (Roof Replacement),            $15,000,000  The President
                              District of Columbia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Madawaska Land Port of Entry, Maine                                 $50,127,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Miami FBI Field Office Consolidation, Florida                      $190,675,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          New Executive Office Building, District of Columbia                 $30,276,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Southeast Federal Center Remediation, District of Columbia          $15,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          Tornillo-Guadalupe Land Port of Entry, Texas                        $91,565,000  The President               Reyes                       Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, Lancaster, Pennsylvania                    $6,500,000  The President                                           Specter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          White Oak FDA Consolidation, Maryland                              $137,871,000  The President               Hoyer                       Mikulski; Cardin; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EOP/ONDCP                    National Alliance for Model State Drug Laws                          $1,250,000  The President               Rogers (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EOP/ONDCP                    National Drug Court Institute                                        $1,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                            FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
                                                                              [Judicially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                 Requester(s)
           Agency                                        Project                                  Amount     -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                     The Judiciary                   House                      Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, Greenbelt, Maryland                       $10,000,000  The Judiciary               Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, Mobile, Alabama                           $50,000,000  The Judiciary               Bonner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, Salt Lake City, Utah                     $211,000,000  The Judiciary                                           Bennett; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, San Antonio, Texas                         $4,000,000  The Judiciary               Gonzalez; Smith (TX)        Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                          United States Courthouse, Savannah, Georgia                          $7,900,000  The Judiciary               Barrow                      Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                            FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                             Requester(s)
            Agency                                                    Project                                             Amount     -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                  House                        Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Treasury                       Financial Education and Pre-home Ownership Counseling Demonstration Project, HI            $3,150,000                                Akaka; Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Agriculture & Land-based Training Association, Salinas, CA for Farmworker to Farmer          $110,000  Farr
                                Business Incubator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Agudath Israel of America, New York, NY Mentoring and training services                      $150,000  Weiner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Alabama Small Business Institute of Commerce, Rainbow City, AL for small business            $100,000  Rogers (AL); Aderholt
                                training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Alabama Technology Network, Birmingham, AL for the Alabama Center for Advanced               $350,000  Aderholt
                                Woodworking Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Alaska Manufacturing Extension Partnership for the AMBIT Youth Entrepreneurship              $200,000                                Murkowski
                                Curriculum, Anchorage, AK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Albuquerque, NM Dos Mundos small business           $200,000  Heinrich
                                assistance program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Alcorn State University for the Systems Research Institute, MS                               $250,000                                Cochran
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Altoona-Blair County Development Corporation, Altoona, PA for the I-99                       $100,000  Shuster
                                Entrepreneurial Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            American Cities Foundation, Inc., Philadelphia, PA Reaching and Impacting Small              $225,000  Fattah
                                Entrepreneurs (Project RISE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Amoskeag Business Incubator, Manchester, NH                                                  $120,000                                Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Arkansas State University, Newport, AR for Arkansas Commercial Driver Training               $200,000  Berry
                                Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Baltimore City Schools, Baltimore, MD Career and Technology Pathways                         $350,000  Ruppersberger; Cummings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Barry University, Miami Shores, FL for community and economic development                    $100,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Meek (FL);      Martinez; Nelson (FL)
                                                                                                                                       Wasserman Schultz; Grayson;
                                                                                                                                       Hastings (FL); Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                       Mario
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Benedictine University, Lisle, IL for women's entrepreneurial education and                  $250,000  Biggert
                                workforce development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Bennett College for Women, The Center for Women's Entrepreneurship, Greensboro, NC           $150,000  Watt                          Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Boise State University, Boise, ID for a research and economic development and                $400,000  Simpson                       Crapo; Risch
                                entrepreneurial initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Brewer Business and Commerce Park, Brewer, ME                                              $1,280,000                                Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation, Bronx, NY business training programs                 $75,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Brooklyn Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Brooklyn, NY Business incubator program                $60,000  Velazquez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Buffalo Niagara International Trade Foundation, Buffalo, NY to support small                 $250,000  Lee (NY)                      Gillibrand; Schumer
                                businesses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Bunker Hill Community College, Boston, MA Workforce Development Initiative for               $150,000  Capuano
                                Internationally Educated Nurses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            California State University, Dominguez Hills, Carson, CA for online access to                $150,000  Richardson
                                business and other educational programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Center for Economic Growth, Albany, NY Watervliet Innovation Center                          $150,000  Tonko                         Gillibrand; Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Cen-Tex African American Chamber of Commerce, Waco, TX Center for Business                   $200,000  Edwards (TX)
                                Excellence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Central Brooklyn Housing Contractor Association, Brooklyn, NY Business Incubation            $150,000  Clarke
                                and Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Central Connecticut State University, for a manufacturing workforce initiative and           $150,000  Murphy (CT)                   Dodd
                                technical assistance program, New Britain, CT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Central Oregon Community College, Bend, OR for a technology education center                 $100,000  Walden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Chamber South, South Miami, FL to encourage economic production                              $100,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity, Chittenden Emergency Food Shelf's           $125,000                                Sanders
                                Community Kitchen Expansion Project, Burlington, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc., Phoenix, AZ Buckeye Small Business Incubator                    $200,000  Pastor (AZ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Alcoa, TN for the Pellissippi Research Centre on the Oak Ridge Corridor              $750,000  Duncan                        Alexander; Corker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Alma, GA for business and infrastructure development                                 $500,000  Kingston
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Bardstown, KY for downtown streetscape economic development                          $100,000  Guthrie
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Berkeley, CA East Bay Green Jobs Project                                             $250,000  Lee (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Buffalo, Buffalo clean energy incubator, Buffalo, NY                                 $117,500                                Gillibrand; Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of College Park, GA Entrepreneurial Development Center                                  $150,000  Scott (GA); Lewis (GA)        Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Jal, renovation of Burke Junior High School to house business ventures, Jal,          $85,000                                Bingaman; Udall (NM)
                                NM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Loma Linda and City of Grand Terrace, CA for an infrastructure expansion             $900,000  Lewis (CA)
                                project to promote small business
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Los Angeles, Port of Los Angeles Technology Advancement Program and Clean            $250,000  Harman                        Feinstein
                                Technology Development Center, Los Angeles, CA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Montrose, CO Montrose Higher Education and Technology Park                           $200,000  Salazar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Myrtle Beach, SC for the Myrtle Beach International Trade and Conference             $100,000  Brown (SC)                    Graham
                                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Palmdale, CA for the South Valley WorkSource Center                                  $100,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Providence, Department of Planning and Development, Rhode Island Center for          $300,000  Langevin                      Reed; Whitehouse
                                Life Sciences, research, development and commercialization, Providence, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Salem, downtown revitalization ``toolbox'' program, Salem, OR                        $200,000                                Merkley; Wyden
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of San Jose, CA Silicon Valley Minority/Immigrant Business Support Initiative           $200,000  Honda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Santa Rosa, Ilfeld Warehouse business incubator, Santa Rosa, NM                      $170,000  Teague                        Bingaman; Udall (NM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            City of Valparaiso, IN Entech Innovation Center Tech Park                                    $250,000  Visclosky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Cleary University, Howell, MI for a multi-media center                                       $100,000  Rogers (MI); Dingell          Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Clemson University, Clemson, SC for the Advanced Materials Innovation Center                 $100,000  Barrett (SC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            College of Notre Dame of Maryland, for lab facilities, Baltimore, MD                         $100,000                                Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Colorado State University, Sustainable Biofuels Development Center, Ft. Collins, CO          $250,000                                Udall (CO)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Commerce Lexington, Lexington, KY Central Kentucky Small Business Assistance                 $200,000  Chandler
                                Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Community Action Committee of the Lehigh Valley, Bethlehem, PA to help small                 $100,000  Dent
                                businesses identify and implement energy efficiency improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Community College of Philadelphia, Northeast Regional Center for small business              $100,000  Schwartz                      Casey
                                education, growth, and training, Philadelphia, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Community Economic Development Fund, Small Business Institute, Meriden, CT for               $250,000  Larson (CT); DeLauro          Dodd; Lieberman
                                training and technical assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Community Links Hawaii for planning and development of Oahu Technology and                   $250,000                                Akaka; Inouye
                                Innovation Park, Oahu, HI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Community Service Society of New York, financial education project, New York, NY             $117,500  Clarke                        Gillibrand; Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Consortium for Worker Education, New York, NY Financial training and guidance                $150,000  Crowley                       Gillibrand; Schumer
                                programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Delaware Valley, Philadelphia, PA Financial             $35,000  Sestak
                                Counseling for Economic Security
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement, Entrepreneurial Development and Government          $300,000                                Akaka; Inouye
                                Procurement Center, Honolulu, HI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            County of Essex, Newark, NJ Resource Center for Small Businesses                             $205,000  Rothman (NJ); Sires;          Lautenberg; Menendez
                                                                                                                                       Pascrell; Payne
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            County of Passaic, Paterson, NJ Economic Development Department                              $125,000  Pascrell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Cuban American National Council New Jersey Regional Office, Union City, NJ Financial         $100,000  Sires                         Lautenberg; Menendez
                                Education, Foreclosure Protection and Home Ownership Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Cuyahoga Community College, veterans outreach and business development program,              $200,000  Fudge, Ryan, Sutton,          Brown; Voinovich
                                Cleveland, OH                                                                                          Kucinich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Dakota College at Bottineau, Entrepreneurial Center for Horticulture, Bottineau, ND          $250,000                                Conrad; Dorgan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Delaware Valley Industrial Resource Center for an emerging manufacturers initiative,         $175,000                                Casey; Specter
                                Philadelphia, PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Delta Foundation, Greenville, MS Mississippi Delta business growth development               $150,000  Thompson (MS)
                                program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Department of Community Affairs, Division on Women, New Jersey Women's Microbusiness         $100,000                                Lautenberg; Menendez
                                Credit Program, for training and mentoring activities, Trenton, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Detroit Renaissance, Detroit, MI for Detroit Creative Corridor Center                        $200,000  Kilpatrick (MI); Conyers      Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Downtown West Plains, Inc., West Plains, MO for the Ozarks Small Business Incubator          $500,000  Emerson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            East Los Angeles Community Union, Los Angeles, CA TELACU Neighborhood Stabilization          $500,000  Roybal-Allard; Baca; Waters
                                Corporation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Eastern Washington University for accelerating economic development in rural and             $250,000                                Cantwell; Murray
                                underserved communities of the Inland Pacific Northwest, Spokane, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Economic Development Council of Tallahassee/Leon County, Inc., Tallahassee, FL               $450,000  Boyd
                                Tallahassee Small Business Incubator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Economic Growth Connection of Westmoreland, Greensburg, PA Defense Procurement               $125,000  Murtha
                                Assistance Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            El Pajaro Community Development Corporation, Watsonville, CA Commercial Kitchen               $90,000  Farr
                                Business Incubator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Fairplex Trade and Conference Center, Los Angeles, CA for Pomona Fairplex Trade and          $350,000  Dreier; Napolitano
                                Conference Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            First Community Development Corporation (FCDC), Inglewood, CA Computer Lab Resource          $150,000  Waters
                                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority, Colorado Drug, Device, and Diagnostic                    $300,000  Perlmutter, Polis             Bennet
                                Development Institute, Aurora, CO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Florida Department of Citrus, Lakeland, FL abscission chemical for improved citrus           $100,000  Putnam
                                harvesting
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Florida Gulf Coast University, Fort Myers, FL for a small business software                  $261,000  Young (FL)
                                development program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Florida Institute of Technology, Florida Advanced Combustion Center, Brevard County,         $200,000                                Nelson (FL)
                                FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL for Activity Based Total                      $100,000  Posey
                                Accountability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Foothill Workforce Investment Board, Pasadena, CA for Small Business Assistance              $150,000  Schiff
                                Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Fort Stockton Economic Development Corporation, Fort Stockton, TX Fort Stockton              $100,000  Rodriguez
                                Small Business Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Girl Scouts of the USA, New York, NY for a national program to improve financial             $305,875  Emerson; Maloney              Gillibrand
                                literacy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Grambling State University, Grambling, LA for the Greater North Louisiana Community          $300,000  Alexander                     Landrieu
                                Development Corporation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Great Falls Development Authority, to support the administrative costs of the                $137,500  Rehberg                       Baucus; Tester
                                Central Montana Growth Fund, Great Falls, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Greater Des Moines Partnership, Des Moines, IA for the Central Iowa Business                 $185,000  Latham; Boswell               Grassley; Harkin
                                Innovation Zone
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Greater Syracuse Chamber of Commerce, Space Alliance Technology Outreach Program             $117,500                                Gillibrand; Schumer
                                (SATOP), Syracuse, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Greater Syracuse Chamber of Commerce, Syracuse, NY Clean Tech Startup Camp                   $232,500  Maffei
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Hannah Grimes Center, business incubator renovation and expansion, Keene, NH                 $130,000                                Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Haymarket Center for a workforce development initiative, Chicago, IL                         $700,000                                Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Hispanic Business Education & Training, Inc., Oakland, CA for a Hispanic Business             $50,000  Lee (CA)
                                Education and Training Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metro Orlando, FL for Small business training,               $220,000  Grayson
                                assistance and outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            HOPE Community Development Corporation for an economic development initiative,               $137,500                                Byrd
                                Charleston, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Housing Options and Geriatric Association Resources, Inc., Bronx, NY Economic and             $75,000  Serrano
                                community development program for elderly persons
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Hudson Valley Agribusiness Development Corporation, Hudson, NY Hudson Valley Food            $350,000  Hinchey; Hall (NY)
                                Processing Incubator Facility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Hunter College, New York, NY for the Roosevelt House Institute Public Policy                  $75,000  Maloney
                                Institute, Financial Literacy Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            I-70 Northwest Development Corporation, St. Louis, MO North St. Louis Community Food         $150,000  Clay
                                and Health Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Idaho TechConnect Inc., Nampa, ID Proof of Concept Center                                    $285,000  Simpson                       Crapo; Risch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois Eastern Community Colleges for the Small Business Development Center,               $200,000                                Durbin
                                Olney, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, IL                                                $600,000  Rush                          Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois Science and Technology Coalition, Chicago, IL Illinois Nanotechnology               $150,000  Lipinski
                                Collaborative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois State Library to expand access to Illinois public libraries, Springfield,           $300,000                                Durbin
                                IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois State University for the McLean County Business Incubator, Normal, IL               $500,000                                Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois State University, Normal, IL for an export project                                  $100,000  Johnson (IL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois Valley Community College, Oglesby, IL Technology and Workforce Development          $220,000  Halvorson
                                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Indianhead Community Action Agency, Ladysmith, WI Solar Business Revolving Loan Fund         $450,000  Obey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown, IA for an education and                $500,000  Latham                        Harkin
                                training center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Jackson State University for Economic and Community Development through Heritage             $500,000                                Cochran
                                Tourism, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Kansas World Trade Center for the Wichita EcoPartnership, Wichita, KS                        $400,000                                Brownback; Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Kelley Road Business Park, Orono, ME                                                         $345,000                                Collins
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Laredo Community College, Laredo, TX Small Business Center                                   $150,000  Cuellar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Latin Chamber of Commerce, Hispanic Leadership Program, Las Vegas, NV                        $234,858                                Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Lawrence CommunityWorks, Union Crossing Mill Redevelopment, Lawrence, MA                     $200,000                                Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Leavenworth Technology and Research Park, Leavenworth, KS                                    $300,000                                Brownback
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Liberty University, VA, Lynchburg, VA Central Virginia WiMAX broadband internet              $220,000  Perriello
                                service for education and economic development--Feasibility Study
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Lock Haven University, Lock Haven, PA Small Business Development Center Tax                   $50,000  Thompson (PA)
                                Compliance Resource Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Long Beach Community College District, Long Beach, CA for business training for              $150,000  Sanchez, Linda
                                Watts-Willowbrook
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Loring Commerce Centre Infrastructure Development for the Loring Development               $1,000,000                                Collins; Snowe
                                Authority, Limestone, ME
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Los Angeles City College Foundation, Los Angeles, CA East Hollywood Entrepreneurial          $150,000  Becerra
                                Training and Small Business Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Louisiana Office of Social Entrepreneurship for administrative costs of a business           $137,500                                Landrieu
                                planning initiative, Baton Rouge, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, Credit Counseling Capacity Building, St. Paul,         $200,000                                Franken; Klobuchar
                                MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Macomb County, MI for a business accelerator                                                 $100,000  Miller (MI); Levin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, New York, NY Foundation for Small business training            $75,000  Maloney
                                and assistance related to international opportunities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Maryland Technology Development Corporation (TEDCO), Columbia, MD Rural Business             $220,000  Kratovil                      Cardin
                                Innovation Initiative--Eastern Shore
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Maverick County Development Corporation, Eagle Pass, TX Maverick County Small                $100,000  Rodriguez
                                Business Development Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            McNeese State University, Southwest Louisiana Entrepreneurial and Economic                   $137,500                                Landrieu
                                Development Center (SEED), Lake Charles, LA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            MDC Inc., Chapel Hill, NC for services related to small business entrepreneurship            $225,000  Fattah
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, New York, NY Employment and training                 $150,000  Nadler
                                programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Miami Dade College Institute, Miami, FL for Intermodal Transportation                        $300,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario;
                                                                                                                                       Wasserman Schultz; Meek
                                                                                                                                       (FL); Ros-Lehtinen; Diaz-
                                                                                                                                       Balart, Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Miami-Dade Chamber of Commerce, Miami, FL Technical Assistance and Economic                  $150,000  Meek (FL)
                                Development Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Mississippi Biotechnology Association for Capacity Building for the Mississippi              $250,000                                Cochran
                                Biotechnology Industry, Ridgeland, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Mississippi State University for the Entrepreneurship Center to Develop New Entity           $500,000  Childers                      Cochran; Wicker
                                Creation (ECDEC), MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Mississippi Technology Alliance for the Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship,          $850,000                                Cochran; Wicker
                                MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Missouri Chamber Education Foundation to develop a small business technology,              $1,000,000                                Bond
                                training and outreach center, Jefferson City, MO
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Montana State University, Bozeman, MT HTAP: High-Technology Assistance Program               $133,000  Rehberg                       Baucus; Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Montana Technology Venture Center, Bozeman, MT for expansion and operations of the           $137,500  Rehberg                       Baucus; Tester
                                TechRanch next step program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Montana World Trade Center, Missoula, MT for Montana Growth Through Trade                    $134,000  Rehberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Montgomery County, Rockville, MD Green Business Incubator                                    $150,000  Van Hollen; Edwards (MD)      Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Mount Hope Housing Company, Inc., Bronx, NY training program                                  $75,000  Serrano
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Mount Vernon Chamber of Commerce, Mount Vernon, NY Mount Vernon Small Business               $150,000  Engel
                                Incubator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            National Association of Development Organizations, Washington, DC for Small Business         $232,500  Arcuri; McIntyre
                                Development and Entrepreneurial Enhancement Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            National Latino Education Institute, Chicago, IL Vocational Training Initiative              $150,000  Gutierrez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            National Urban League, New York, NY Restore Our Homes-Homeownership Center in                $100,000  Jackson (IL)
                                Chicago
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Nebraska Community Foundation, HomeTown Competitiveness, Lincoln, NE                         $275,000                                Nelson (NE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Neighborhood Development Center, Midtown Global Market business technical                    $200,000  Ellison                       Franken; Klobuchar
                                assistance, St. Paul, MN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Neighborhood Development Center, St. Paul, MN University Avenue Business Preparation         $200,000  McCollum
                                Collaborative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Nevada Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology (NCET), small business and                 $234,858                                Reid
                                entrepreneurship development, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Nevada Small Business Development Center, for Imagine 2012, a Hispanic business              $234,859                                Reid
                                development initiative, Reno, NV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            New Agrarian Center, Oberlin, OH Urban Agriculture Business Development                      $125,000  Kaptur
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            New Orleans Redevelopment Authority, New Orleans, LA to encourage commercial                 $250,000  Cao                           Landrieu
                                investments
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            New York City College of Technology, Brooklyn, NY Brooklyn Small Business                    $115,000  Towns
                                Development Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            New York College of Environmental Science & Forestry, Syracuse, NY for the New York          $100,000  McHugh
                                Forest Community Economic Assistance Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            New York Industrial Retention Network, New York, NY Technical assistance and                  $60,000  Velazquez
                                financing for manufacturers for energy conservation projects
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Newport Chamber of Commerce, Middletown, RI Industrial Park of Tiverton                       $80,000  Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            North Carolina Biotechnology Center, Research Triangle Park, NC Entrepreneurship and         $130,000  Price (NC)
                                Research and Development Training Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center, Raleigh, NC for a Rural Business           $250,000  Price (NC); Miller (NC);      Burr; Hagan
                                Finance Program                                                                                        McIntyre; Shuler;
                                                                                                                                       Butterfield; Etheridge
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            North Carolina School of the Arts/Winston-Salem State University, The Center for             $100,000  Watt                          Hagan
                                Design Innovation, Winston-Salem, NC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northeast Alabama Community College, Rainsville, AL for industrial systems                   $335,000  Aderholt
                                technology and machining training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northeast Entrepreneur Fund, Virginia, MN Greenstone Group                                   $200,000  Oberstar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northeast Ohio Technology Coalition, Cleveland, OH for Tech Leaders II: Job Creation         $250,000  LaTourette; Sutton; Ryan      Brown; Voinovich
                                through Industry Cluster Development                                                                   (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northern Arizona Center, Flagstaff, AZ for Emerging Technologies for the Arizona             $220,000  Kirkpatrick (AZ)
                                Clean Energy Accelerator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northern Dauphin Revitalization Project, Inc., Elizabethville, PA job creation               $150,000  Holden
                                initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northern Virginia Community College for retraining displaced workers in Geographic           $200,000                                Warner; Webb
                                Information Systems, Richmond, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northside Economic Opportunity Network (NEON), Minneapolis, MN North Minneapolis             $150,000  Ellison
                                Small Business Capacity Building Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Northwest Pennsylvania Incubator Association for an incubator project, Erie County,          $100,000                                Casey
                                PA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            NYS Small Business Development Center at Rockland County Community College, Suffern,         $125,000  Lowey
                                NY for training for displaced workers to start or expand small business
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Oakland African American Chamber of Commerce Foundation, Oakland, CA for Economic             $50,000  Lee (CA)
                                Vitality of Minority Businesses in Oakland
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Oakland Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, Oakland, CA for Economic Vitality of Asian             $50,000  Lee (CA)
                                Minority Business Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Operation Get Ahead, Hempstead, NY for job readiness and employment programs                 $150,000  McCarthy (NY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Operation New Hope, Inc., Jacksonville, FL for a prisoner re-entry job training              $790,000  Crenshaw
                                program that works with small business owners
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Our Lady of the Lake University, San Antonio, TX Hispanic Leadership and                     $100,000  Gonzalez
                                Entrepreneurship Training Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Pace University Lienhard School of Nursing, White Plains, NY nursing workforce               $125,000  Lowey
                                education and training initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Pasadena City College, Pasadena, CA Small Business and Entrepreneur Assistance               $150,000  Schiff
                                Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Philadelphia Development Partnership, Philadelphia, PA Southeastern Pennsylvania              $65,000  Sestak
                                Micro Business Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Phillips County Economic Development for a Entrepreneur Business Enhancement Program         $300,000                                Brownback
                                (EBEP), Phillips County, KS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners, Clearwater, FL for the Business               $262,000  Young (FL); Castor            Martinez; Nelson (FL)
                                Assistance Partnership Network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Port of Bremerton, Port Orchard, WA for services to sustainable energy and other             $250,000  Dicks
                                ``green'' small businesses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Port of Clarkston, Asotin County Industrial Park infrastructure completion, Asotin           $350,000                                Murray
                                County, WA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Portland Community College, sustainable careers for a green economic recovery,               $200,000                                Merkley; Wyden
                                Portland, OR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, NY Green Community Career & Business Training Center               $85,000  Towns
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD Small Business Initiative                         $150,000  Hoyer; Van Hollen; Edwards    Cardin
                                                                                                                                       (MD)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Progreso Latino, Central Falls, RI Small business capacity building assistance               $120,000  Kennedy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Project Ezrah Needs, Inc., Englewood, NJ Employment and financial counseling and             $100,000  Rothman (NJ)
                                assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Prospera (Gallatin Valley Development Corporation), Accelerated Entrepreneur                 $200,000                                Baucus
                                Program, Bozeman, MT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Rhode Island School of Design and Brown University, Partnership for Sustainable              $150,000  Kennedy, Langevin             Reed; Whitehouse
                                Development/Rhode Island Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (RI-CIE), for
                                technical assistance to small businesses on green product design and marketing and
                                on developing and commercializing innovative products and services, Providence, RI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            River District Association, Rockford, IL to develop and recruit small businesses             $100,000  Manzullo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Rural Business Energizer Program, Milbridge, ME                                              $250,000                                Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Rural Enterprises of Oklahoma, Inc, for a Women and Veteran's Business Resource              $200,000                                Inhofe
                                Center at Seminole State College, Durant, OK
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Jersey urban entrepreneurship               $271,050  Payne                         Lautenberg; Menendez
                                development initiative, New Brunswick, NJ
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            SEKTDA, Somerset, KY for economic and small business development in Southern and             $685,000  Rogers (KY)
                                Eastern Kentucky
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Shawnee Community College for the Small Business Development Center, Ullin, IL               $200,000                                Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Souris Basin Regional Planning Council, North Dakota REAP Zones, ND                          $300,000  Pomeroy                       Conrad; Dorgan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            South Dakota Rural Enterprise, Dakota Rising for an entrepreneur development system,         $250,000                                Johnson
                                SD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation, Brooklyn, NY Plan Ahead                $80,000  Velazquez
                                Brooklyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Southwest Georgia United Empowerment Zone, Inc. for Capitalization and overhead of           $100,000  Bishop (GA)
                                Community Development Financial Institution, Vienna, GA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Southwestern Adventist University, Keene, TX Entrepreneurship Resources Center               $200,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Suffolk County Community College, Brentwood, NY Green Technology Workforce                   $200,000  Israel
                                Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            SUNY Fredonia, Fredonia, NY small business incubator                                         $150,000  Higgins
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Texas State University System, San Marcos, TX Center for Entrepreneurial Action              $150,000  Doggett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Bi-National Sustainability Laboratory (BNSL), El Paso, TX Partnership for                $150,000  Reyes
                                Innovation and Security
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Bodega Association of the United States, Inc., New York, NY for education,               $200,000  Rangel
                                training and other small business assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Citizens Advice Bureau, Bronx, NY for economic and community development                 $150,000  Serrano
                                programs for homeless adults
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Export Consortium, Columbia, SC The I-95 Corridor Project                                $150,000  Clyburn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, Pittsburgh, PA for the Tech Belt                    $100,000  Doyle, Altmire, Murtha        Casey; Specter
                                Biosciences Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The Progress Fund, Greensburg, PA Technical Assistance for Small Businesses                  $125,000  Murtha
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The University of Mississippi for the Technology Commercialization Initiative,               $250,000                                Cochran
                                Oxford, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            The University of Southern Mississippi for the Early Stage Entrepreneur and                  $500,000                                Cochran
                                Commercialization Development, Hattiesburg, MS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Thomas More College, Crestview Hills, KY for training programs in health care                $100,000  Davis (KY)
                                management
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Thorpe Family Residence, Inc. (TFR), Bronx, NY for economic and community                     $75,000  Serrano
                                development, residential services programs and capital costs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Township of Woodbridge, NJ for the Pennval Road Green Technology Incubator                   $250,000  Lance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Uhlich Children's Advantage Network for job training, placement and retention                $400,000                                Durbin
                                services, Chicago, IL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            UMASS Dartmouth, Fall River, MA Advanced Technical & Manufacturing Center                    $325,000  Frank (MA); McGovern
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            United Way for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit, MI Ex-Offender Entrepreneurship               $250,000  Conyers; Dingell              Levin; Stabenow
                                Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for the Preparing the Workforce of the Future        $1,000,000  Bachus                        Sessions; Shelby
                                project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Alaska, Small Business Development Center, Ketchikan, AK                       $350,000                                Begich; Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Small Business Innovation Center, Little              $275,000  Snyder                        Lincoln; Pryor
                                Rock, AR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR for the Arkansas Research and Technology            $225,000  Boozman                       Lincoln; Pryor
                                Park
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Connecticut for the Avery Point Technology Center, Groton, CT                  $200,000  Courtney                      Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT Farmington Technology Incubation Center                $150,000  DeLauro; Murphy (CT)          Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Delaware, Newark, DE for the Delaware Small Business and Technology            $350,000  Castle                        Carper; Kaufman
                                Development Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Georgia, Public Service and Outreach, Athens, GA for an applied                $100,000  Bishop (GA)
                                research demonstration project to bolster workforce development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Guam, Mangilao, GU Center for Regional Economic Development                    $150,000  Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Maryland-Baltimore BioPark, Baltimore, MD                                      $100,000  Sarbanes, Cummings,           Cardin
                                                                                                                                       Ruppersberger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Memphis, TN for an entrepreneurial training program                            $685,000  Wamp; Cohen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Missouri System, Columbia, MO for the Extension Community Economic and         $299,000  Emerson
                                Entrepreneurial program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Nebraska at Omaha, NE Micro-Enterprise Center for Information                  $250,000  Terry                         Nelson (NE)
                                Technology Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Northern Iowa for MyEntreNet, a national rural entrepreneurship                $250,000  Braley                        Grassley; Harkin
                                development system, IA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC Innovista Center for Entrepreneurial              $100,000  Clyburn
                                Development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Southern Maine for the Science Technology Research Center, Portland,           $850,000                                Collins
                                ME
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Texas at Brownsville, TX Global Marketing and Logistics Certification          $150,000  Ortiz
                                Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Toledo, Toledo, OH Renewable Energy Business Incubator communication            $75,000  Kaptur                        Brown
                                infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL for the Turnaround Business Assistance             $262,000  Young (FL); Miller (FL)       Martinez; Nelson (FL)
                                Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of West Georgia, Carrollton, GA for a small business incubator                    $100,000  Gingrey (GA)                  Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Wisconsin, Whitewater, WI Small Business Development Center                    $150,000  Baldwin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee for business development related to clean water            $250,000  Moore                         Kohl
                                technologies, Milwaukee, WI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, economic development center expansion,                $200,000                                Kennedy; Kerry
                                Boston, MA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Urban League of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA for the Urban League Entrepreneurship         $150,000  Brady (PA)                    Casey; Specter
                                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Valencia County IT program, upgrade and training, Valencia County, NM                        $145,000                                Bingaman; Udall (NM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Vermont Businesses for Social Responsibility, the 50 for 25 Demonstration Project,            $50,000                                Sanders
                                Burlington, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Vermont Community Colleges, Waterbury, VT Career Readiness and Supervision                   $150,000  Welch
                                Certification
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Vermont Farms Association for an agritourism best practices and standards project,            $75,000                                Sanders
                                Rochester, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Vermont Small Business Development Center, technical assistance to high-tech small           $250,000                                Leahy
                                businesses and emerging businesses, Randolph, VT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Village of Olympia Fields, Olympia Fields, IL South Suburban Coalition Economic              $100,000  Jackson (IL)                  Burris
                                Development Demonstration Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Virginia's Center for Innovative Technology, Mine safety technology and                      $200,000                                Warner; Webb
                                communication improvements, Herndon, VA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Wayne State University, Detroit, MI Law School Small Business Clinic                         $200,000  Kilpatrick (MI);              Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester, PA Entrepreneurial Leadership         $150,000  Gerlach; Sestak
                                Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            West Jefferson Medical Center, Marrero, LA Workforce Training and Development                $100,000  Scalise
                                Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            West Virginia Northern Community College, Center for Economic and Workforce                  $137,500                                Byrd
                                Advancement, Weirton, WV
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Illinois University for the Small Business Development Center, Macomb, IL            $400,000                                Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Kentucky University Bowling Green Data Center, Bowling Green, KY                   $1,100,000                                McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Massachusetts Enterprise Fund, Holyoke, MA Financial and Technical                   $250,000  Olver
                                Assistance for Development Enterprises
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Nevada Development District, Carson City, NV to promote small business               $250,000  Heller
                                development efforts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Reserve Port Authority, Vienna, OH Western Reserve Economic Development              $200,000  Ryan (OH)
                                Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Western Reserve Resource Conservation and Development Council, Painesville, OH for a         $150,000  LaTourette
                                green job and watershed management training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Women At Work, Pasadena, CA Career Technology Training for Low-Income Women                  $150,000  Schiff
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Women's Business Development Center, Stamford, CT for entrepreneurial small business         $200,000  DeLauro; Murphy (CT); Himes   Dodd; Lieberman
                                training and assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            World Trade Center Institute Delaware, for the export assistance webinar series for           $50,000                                Carper; Kaufman
                                business education, Wilmington, DE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            YMCA of Long Island, Inc., Holtsville, NY Diversity Training Program at the                  $100,000  Bishop (NY)
                                Brookhaven-Roe YMCA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GSA                            Oklahoma City National Memorial Foundation for Oklahoma City Memorial                      $1,000,000  Cole; Fallin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Children's National Medical Center                                                         $1,000,000  Moran (VA)                    Cochran; Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Living Classrooms of the National Capital Region, Washington, DC for education and           $100,000  Moran (VA)
                                job skills training for disadvantaged young adults
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             National Building Museum, Washington, DC for education programs and exhibitions              $150,000  Moran (VA); Norton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Safe Kids USA, Washington, DC for safety services for families in need                       $125,000  Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Samaritan Ministry of Greater Washington, Washington, DC for Next Step Program               $100,000  Norton; Moran (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             The Washington Center, Washington, DC for construction and build out of academic             $125,000  Wasserman Schultz
                                space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Washington Hospital Center, Washington, DC for trauma center and other critical               $50,000  Norton
                                hospital upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DC                             Whitman-Walker Clinic, Washington, DC for health care services                               $200,000  Wasserman Schultz; Norton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


       The following item represents a technical correction to an earmark enacted in a previous appropriations Act (Public Law 111-8). No additional funds are provided for this earmark.
 
                                                                            FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
                                                                                     [Technical Correction]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                             Requester(s)
            Agency                                                    Project                                             Amount     -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                  House                        Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SBA                            Illinois Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities                                       N/A                                Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                           Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

(In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...     $51,324,576
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................      46,278,631
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................      46,223,693
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................      46,302,193
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................      46,265,193
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................      -5,059,383
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................         -13,438
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................         +41,500
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................         -37,000

   DIVISION D--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

      The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, put 
in place by this division incorporates the following agreements 
of the managers. Funds for the individual programs and 
activities within the accounts in this division are displayed 
in the detailed table at the end of the statement of the 
managers for this Act. Funding levels that are not displayed in 
the detailed table are identified within this statement of the 
managers. All references within this explanatory statement to 
the Recovery Act mean the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5).
      In implementing this conference agreement, the 
Departments and agencies should be guided by the language and 
instructions set forth in House Report 111-220 and Senate 
Report 111-66 accompanying the bill, H.R. 3293. In cases where 
the language and instructions in either report specifically 
address the allocation of funds, each has been reviewed by the 
conferees and those that are jointly concurred in have been 
endorsed in this explanatory statement.
      In cases in which the House or the Senate report requests 
or directs the submission of a report, such report is to be 
submitted to both the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate.
      Section 516 sets forth the reprogramming requirements and 
limitations for the Departments and agencies funded through 
this division, including the requirement to make a written 
request to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate 15 days prior to reprogramming, 
or to the announcement of intent to reprogram funds in excess 
of 10 percent or $500,000, whichever is less, between programs, 
projects, and activities.
      Departments and agencies funded in this division shall 
submit statements on the effect of this Act to the 
Appropriations Committees within 45 days of enactment of this 
Act, pursuant to section 518. The Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate expect that 
these statements will provide sufficient detail to show the 
allocation of funds among programs, projects, and activities, 
particularly in accounts where the final appropriation is 
different than that of the budget request. Further, these 
statements also shall include the effect of the appropriation 
on any new activities or major initiatives discussed in the 
budget justifications accompanying the fiscal year 2010 budget.

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $3,828,530,000 for 
Training and Employment Services instead of $3,802,961,000 as 
proposed by the House and $3,798,536,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Of the amount appropriated, $1,772,000,000 is an 
advance appropriation for fiscal year 2011 as proposed by both 
the House and the Senate.
      Within the total for the Dislocated Worker Assistance 
National Reserve, the conference agreement does not include 
bill language to allow up to $30,000,000 of this appropriation 
to be made available to the Career Pathways Innovation Fund as 
proposed by the Senate. The conferees urge the Secretary to 
give favorable consideration to grant applications from States 
whose allotment for dislocated worker employment and training 
activities in Public Law 111-8 was less than their allotment 
for such activities in Public Law 110-161. The conference 
agreement includes bill language to suspend section 173(e) of 
the Workforce Investment Act (WIA). Section 173(e) of the WIA 
facilitated the transition from the Job Training Partnership 
Act formula to the WIA formula; however, the WIA formula has 
been in effect for a decade and the transition is complete. The 
conferees note that suspending this provision will allow more 
funds to be available to respond to natural disasters and mass 
layoffs. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed a similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement designates $78,410,000 for 
migrant and seasonal farmworker formula grants instead of 
$78,610,000 as proposed by the House and $78,310,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. In addition, the conference agreement 
designates $5,700,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
housing instead of $5,500,000 as proposed by the House and 
$5,800,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Within the amount provided for Pilots, Demonstrations and 
Research, the conference agreement includes $30,000,000 for a 
new competitive grant program to provide transitional jobs 
activities instead of $35,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$40,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement 
provides an additional $15,000,000 for these activities within 
the Reintegration of Ex-Offenders program, resulting in a total 
of $45,000,000 for transitional jobs activities. The conferees 
direct the Department of Labor to consult with the Department 
of Health and Human Services' Administration for Children and 
Families in designing the grant competition and awarding 
grants, consistent with House Report 111-220. In addition, the 
conferees note that funds should be used to leverage other 
resources to support program growth, consistent with Senate 
Report 111-66. The conference agreement includes bill language 
allowing up to 10 percent of funding for transitional jobs 
activities to be available for evaluation of such projects or 
transferred to the Department of Health and Human Services or 
the Department of Justice for support of transitional jobs 
activities as proposed by the Senate. The House bill included a 
provision to ensure that a sufficient portion of funds 
available for transitional jobs activities would be used for an 
evaluation of the program.
      Within the amount provided for Pilots, Demonstrations and 
Research, the conference agreement also includes $5,500,000 as 
proposed by the House to continue a program of competitive 
grants to address the employment and training needs of young 
parents. The Senate did not include funds for this activity. 
The Department should continue to award these competitive 
grants based on the criteria outlined in House Report 110-231.
      The conference agreement includes $48,889,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

        Project                                                   Amount
Access Community Health Network, Chicago, IL for a job 
    training initiative.......................................   400,000
Alabama Institute for the Deaf and Blind, Talladega, AL for an 
    employer training and job development initiative..........   200,000
Arkansas State University-Beebe, Searcy, AR for a training 
    program for employment in the natural gas industry........   200,000
Atlanta Christian College, East Point, GA, for training and 
    curriculum development....................................   350,000
Baltimore City Mayor's Office of Employment Development, 
    Baltimore, MD, for YouthWorks.............................   575,000
Beth Medrash Govoha, Lakewood, NJ for a job training 
    initiative................................................   275,000
Blackhawk Technical College, Janesville, WI, to provide job 
    training to the unemployed and incumbent workers.......... 1,000,000
Brevard Workforce Development Board, Rockledge, FL for a job 
    training initiative....................................... 1,000,000
Bridge to Independence & Career Opportunities, Danbury, CT for 
    job training and job placement............................   100,000
Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA for job placement 
    services for veterans.....................................   100,000
Bucks County Community College, Newtown, PA for training at 
    the Renewable Energy Academy..............................   600,000
Campbellsville-Taylor County Industrial Development Authority, 
    Campbellsville, KY for a job training initiative..........   500,000
Capital Workforce Partners, Hartford, CT, for a career 
    competency development program............................   300,000
Capps Workforce Training Center, Stoneville, MS, for workforce 
    training..................................................   500,000
Center for Employment Training, San Jose, CA for training 
    dislocated workers and out-of-school youth for green jobs.   350,000
Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska, 
    Juneau, AK, to expand vocational training including 
    distance learning technologies............................   308,000
Central Pennsylvania Institute of Science and Technology, 
    Pleasant Gap, PA for job training programs................   250,000
Chesapeake Bay Trust, Annapolis, MD, for the clean water jobs 
    training initiative.......................................   116,000
Chicago House and Social Service Agency, Chicago, IL for an 
    employment training and transitional jobs program.........   200,000
City of Baltimore, Office of Employment Development, MD for 
    its BRAC Employment Preparedness Program..................   400,000
City of Chesapeake, VA for a job training initiative..........   250,000
City of Detroit, MI for its Summer Youth Services Program.....   500,000
City of East Palo Alto, CA for workforce training in green 
    jobs......................................................   600,000
City of Emeryville, CA, for the East Bay Green Jobs Initiative 
    workforce development program.............................   200,000
City of Grand Rapids, MI for the Our Community's Children job 
    training initiative.......................................   350,000
City of Los Angeles, CA, for the Los Angeles Youth Opportunity 
    Movement workforce development program....................   500,000
City of Oakland, CA, for the East Bay Green Jobs Initiative 
    workforce development program.............................   600,000
City of Petersburg, Clearwater, FL for an employment readiness 
    program...................................................   200,000
City of Richmond, CA for the Richmond BUILD Pre-apprenticeship 
    Construction Skills & Solar Installation Training Program.   700,000
City of St. Petersburg, FL for the Summer Youth Internship/
    Green Workforce Readiness Training Program................   300,000
City of West Palm Beach, FL for its Youth Empowerment Centers.   400,000
Closing the Digital Gap, Lansing, MI for a computer-based job 
    training initiative.......................................   250,000
Coastal Enterprises, Inc., Wiscasset, ME for workforce 
    training and evaluation at the CEI Green Business 
    Investment and Job Creation Initiative....................   250,000
College of Southern Idaho, Twin Falls, ID, for renewable 
    energy job training program...............................   100,000
Columbia Gorge Community College, The Dalles, OR for a 
    renewable energy training program, including purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Community Learning Center, Inc., Ft. Worth, TX for a job 
    training initiative.......................................   500,000
Community Transportation Association of America, Washington, 
    DC, for the continuation of the Joblinks program..........   450,000
Conservation Corps of Long Beach, Long Beach, CA for a job 
    training program for at-risk youth........................   225,000
Covenant House Florida, Fort Lauderdale, FL for job readiness 
    training..................................................   550,000
Covenant House New Jersey, Newark, NJ, for a job training 
    initiative................................................   100,000
Cypress Mandela Training Center, Inc., Oakland, CA for pre-
    apprentice construction training for solar and green jobs.   275,000
Danville Community College, Danville, VA for training at its 
    Wood Products Advanced Manufacturing Lab..................   100,000
Davinci Center for Community Progress, Providence, RI for 
    workforce education and training..........................   200,000
DaytonDefense, Beavercreek, OH for a job training initiative..   300,000
Des Moines Area Community College, Ankeny, IA for dislocated 
    worker training and job placement in financial services, 
    health care and construction..............................   350,000
Des Moines Area Community College, Ankeny, IA, for the Central 
    Iowa Works Project Employment career opportunities 
    education program.........................................   400,000
Digital Workforce Academy, Austin, TX for a job training 
    initiative................................................   300,000
Duke Media Foundation, Hollywood, CA for career exploration 
    and training for at-risk youth for jobs in filmmaking.....   100,000
East Bay Regional Park District, Oakland, CA, for fire and 
    conservation crews training programs......................   600,000
Easter Seals Arc of NE Indiana, Ft. Wayne, IN for a job 
    training program for adults with disabilities.............   100,000
Filipino-American Service Group, Los Angeles, CA for case 
    management and job training for homeless individuals......   250,000
Finishing Trades Institute, Philadelphia, PA, for 
    weatherization job training programs......................   100,000
Flathead Valley Community College, Kalispell, MT, Career 
    Opportunities through Retraining and Education............   100,000
Florida Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Celebration, FL, 
    for the Florida mobile outreach skills training program...   100,000
Fordham Bedford Children's Services, Bronx, NY for job 
    placement, training, and workforce development............   100,000
Fort Belknap Indian Community, Harlem, MT, Fort Belknap 477 
    Employment & Training, Summer Youth Program...............   100,000
Fox Valley Technical College, Oshkosh, WI, to create an 
    accelerated, one year welder training program.............   150,000
Friends of Children of Mississippi, Jackson, MS, for the TANF 
    to Work and Ownership Project.............................   200,000
Germanna Community College, Fredericksburg, VA for nursing 
    training and curriculum development.......................   100,000
Give Every Child A Chance, Manteca, CA for employment 
    mentoring.................................................   500,000
Guadalupe Centers, Inc., Kansas City, MO for its Culinary Arts 
    Institute job training and employment program.............   200,000
HARBEL Community Organization, Baltimore, MD for unemployed 
    and underemployed individuals.............................   250,000
Hard Hatted Women, Warren, OH for the Tradeswomen TOOLS 
    program...................................................   200,000
Hartford Public Schools, Hartford, CT, for workforce readiness 
    and job placement services through OPPortunity High School   275,000
Haven for Hope of Bexar County, San Antonio, TX, for a 
    homeless job training program.............................   200,000
Hawkeye Community College, Waterloo, IA, for support of the 
    Advance Manufacturing Training program, including 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Highline Community College, Des Moines, WA for a workforce 
    training, education, and outreach initiative..............   250,000
Hobbs Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Hobbs, NM, for workforce 
    development...............................................   200,000
Homeboy Industries, Los Angeles, CA for solar panel 
    installation training and certification for at-risk young 
    individuals in Los Angeles................................   300,000
Hopkins House, Alexandria, VA for workforce development and 
    training in early childhood education.....................   250,000
Impact Services Corporation, Philadelphia, PA, for a community 
    job training and placement program........................   100,000
IndependenceFirst, Milwaukee, WI to provide employment support 
    services to persons with disabilities.....................   100,000
Innovative Productivity, Inc., Louisville, KY for a job 
    training initiative.......................................   150,000
Instituto del Progresso Latino, Chicago, IL, for employment 
    and training programs in health care for limited English 
    speaking individuals......................................   375,000
Jacksonville Center for the Arts, Floyd, VA for workforce 
    training..................................................   150,000
JobPath, Inc., Tucson, AZ for underserved adults job training.   200,000
Jobs for Maine's Graduates, Inc, Augusta, ME, for career 
    development for at-risk youth.............................   200,000
Jobs for Mississippi Graduates, Inc, Jackson, MS, for career 
    development for at-risk youth.............................   200,000
Johnstown Area Regional Industries, Inc., Johnstown, PA for 
    its workforce development program.........................   200,000
Lansing Community College, Lansing, MI for a job training 
    initiative focused on alternative automotive technologies.   420,000
Liberty Resources, Inc, Philadelphia, PA, for job training 
    programs for persons with disabilities....................   100,000
Lincoln Land Community College, Springfield, IL, for workforce 
    development programs......................................   250,000
Living Classrooms of the National Capital Region, Washington, 
    DC for its youth workforce development program............   350,000
Local Area 1 Workforce Investment Board, Caribou, ME, for 
    workforce job opportunities...............................   500,000
Los Angeles Community College District/Valley College, Valley 
    Glen, CA for workforce development in energy efficiency 
    and green technology fields...............................   300,000
Macomb Community College, Warren, MI for training displaced 
    workers in the aerospace and defense industries...........   550,000
MAGNET, Cleveland, OH for veterans workforce development, 
    training, and job placement in the manufacturing industry.   200,000
Maine Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Augusta, ME, for 
    workforce job opportunities...............................   500,000
Make the Road New York, Brooklyn, NY for English language and 
    economic literacy training in low-income, primarily 
    immigrant communities.....................................   200,000
Manchester Bidwell Corporation, Pittsburgh, PA, for job 
    training programs at Bidwell Training Center..............   100,000
Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Worcester, 
    MA, for expansion of a workforce skills training program..   250,000
Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, Maui Economic 
    Development Board Science, Technology, Engineering and 
    Math (STEM) training......................................   450,000
Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, Rural Computer 
    Utilization Training......................................   300,000
McHenry County, Woodstock, IL for short-term occupational 
    training..................................................   250,000
Metropolitan Community Colleges, Kansas City, MO for training 
    services at its Sustainability Training Center............   500,000
Michigan Works, Benton Harbor, MI for the basic workforce 
    transformation program....................................   250,000
Milton S Eisenhower Foundation, Washington, DC, for job 
    training, job placement and GED acquisition programs in 
    Iowa......................................................   400,000
Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College, Perkinston, MS, for 
    workforce training........................................   350,000
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, for the 
    Mississippi Integrated Workforce Performance System.......   500,000
Mississippi Technology Alliance, Ridgeland, MS, for workforce 
    training..................................................   250,000
Mississippi Valley State University, Itta Bena, MS, for 
    training and development at the Automated Identification 
    Technology/Automatic Data Collection Program..............   500,000
Montana State University, Billings, MT, for job training......   100,000
National Center for Family Literacy, Louisville, KY for 
    integration of career awareness and job readiness 
    activities into a family literacy program.................   100,000
National Council of Negro Women, Washington, DC for a job 
    readiness, life skills, and training program for 
    disadvantaged women.......................................   350,000
Northeast Iowa Ironworkers-Cedar Rapids Local 89, Cedar 
    Rapids, IA, for workforce development.....................   250,000
Northern Marianas Trade Institute, Saipan, MP for vocational 
    and technical training programs...........................   200,000
Ocean Bay Community Development Corporation, Averne, NY for a 
    workforce preparation program for youth and young adults 
    residing in public housing................................   100,000
Oklahoma City Community College, Oklahoma City, OK for a 
    veterans job training initiative..........................   200,000
Opportunities Industrialization Center of Washington, Yakima, 
    WA, to provide workforce and health and safety training to 
    agricultural workers......................................   150,000
People for the Parks, Venice, CA for a program to train at-
    risk youth to maintain and operate sustainable parks......   165,000
Philadelphia Shipyard Development Corporation, Philadelphia, 
    PA, for job training programs.............................   100,000
Project ARRIBA, El Paso, TX, for workforce development and 
    economic opportunities in the West Texas region...........   100,000
Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation, Providence, RI, 
    for support and delivery of job training services.........   500,000
San Jacinto College, Pasadena, TX for workforce development, 
    which shall include purchase of equipment.................   350,000
Sheppard Pratt Health System, Baltimore, MD, Work Force 
    Initiative for the Mentally Ill...........................   725,000
Southeastern Louisiana University, Hammond, LA for a workforce 
    development initiative....................................   150,000
Southern Utah University, Cedar City, UT, for a renewable 
    energy job training initiative............................   400,000
Southwest Virginia Community College, Richlands, VA for green 
    jobs training in rural communities........................   400,000
Spokane Area Workforce Development Council, Spokane, WA, to 
    support comprehensive regional planning efforts to address 
    the workforce challenges of the Spokane area..............   250,000
St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation, Brooklyn, 
    NY for a workforce development initiative.................   150,000
Summit Academy OIC, Minneapolis, MN for a program focused on 
    weatherization technician training and residential energy 
    auditing..................................................   400,000
Team Taylor County, Campbellsville, KY, for job training 
    programs..................................................   100,000
The Healing Place, Richmond, VA, for job training services....   150,000
Tulane University, New Orleans, LA for a community health 
    worker training program...................................   250,000
UMWA Career Centers, Inc., Washington, PA for its mine worker 
    training and employment programs..........................   550,000
University of Hawaii-Maui, Kahului, HI, for Community College 
    Training & Education Opportunities program................ 2,000,000
University of Hawaii-Maui, Kahului, HI, for the Remote Rural 
    Hawaii Job Training Project............................... 2,300,000
Upper Rio Grande Workforce Solutions, El Paso, TX for its 
    Rural Initiatives Program.................................   200,000
Vanguard Services Unlimited, Arlington, VA for a comprehensive 
    vocational counselor training project.....................   250,000
Vermont Department of Public Safety, Waterbury, VT, for 
    firefighting and emergency services training support......   100,000
Vermont HITEC, Inc, Williston, VT, for the Vermont HITEC Job 
    Training Initiative....................................... 2,000,000
Vermont Technical College, Randolph Center, VT, for the 
    Vermont Green Jobs Workforce Development Initiative.......   750,000
Vocational Guidance Services, Cleveland, OH, for job training 
    activities................................................   100,000
Wake Technical Community College, Raleigh, NC for job training 
    in the computer simulation and green automotive 
    technologies industries...................................   400,000
Washington State Board for Community and Technical Colleges, 
    Federal Way, WA, for training, on-the-job support and 
    career development services in the long-term care sector 
    in Washington State.......................................   250,000
Washington State Labor Council AFL-CIO, Seattle, WA, to help 
    support the creation of a pathway for young people to 
    apprenticeship training programs in high demand industries 
    across the State of Washington............................   200,000
Washington State Workforce Training and Education Coordinating 
    Board, Olympia, WA, to support the development, expansion, 
    delivery and testing of workplace-based education and 
    training for low-income adult workers resulting in models 
    for other States use......................................   850,000
Waukesha Technical College, Pewaukee, WI, to provide job 
    training to the unemployed and incumbent workers..........   200,000
West Los Angeles College, Culver City, CA for the Pathways to 
    21st Century Careers program..............................   600,000
Workforce Opportunity Council, Concord, NH, for the advanced 
    manufacturing portable classroom social services research 
    training program..........................................   100,000
Workforce Services Unlimited, Inc., Circleville, OH for a job 
    training initiative.......................................   450,000
Wrightco Educational Foundation, Ebensburg, PA, for security 
    and communications technology job training programs.......   100,000
WRTP/BIG STEP, Milwaukee, WI for workforce skills training to 
    match needs in the construction, manufacturing and 
    healthcare sectors........................................   100,000
Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation, Youngstown, 
    OH for its Youngstown Grey to Green Initiative to provide 
    training in green jobs....................................   305,000
Youth Radio, Oakland, CA for training of at-risk youth in 
    media production, digital technology and broadcast 
    engineering...............................................   250,000

      Within the funds provided for Reintegration of Ex-
offenders, the conference agreement includes $15,000,000 for 
transitional jobs activities as proposed by the House. The 
Senate included funds for transitional jobs activities within 
the Pilots, Demonstrations and Research program. The conference 
agreement designates that funds shall be available for 
obligation on April 1, 2010 as proposed by the Senate. The 
House proposed that funds shall be available for obligation on 
July 1, 2010. The conferees expect the Department of Labor to 
consult with the Department of Justice in awarding competitive 
grants for transitional jobs activities.
      The conferees support the Department's proposed spending 
priorities for the Reintegration of Ex-offenders program, as 
identified in the congressional budget justification. Given 
that the conference agreement adopts a funding level below the 
request, the conferees request that an operating plan be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act.
      The conference agreement establishes a separate line item 
for the Career Pathways Innovation Fund. The Career Pathways 
Innovation Fund replaces the Community-Based Job Training 
Grants program, which previously received funding under the 
Dislocated Worker Assistance National Reserve. The conference 
agreement includes a set-aside of not less than $65,000,000 for 
competitive grants that prepare workers for careers in the 
health care sector as proposed by the House. The Senate did not 
include a set-aside within the Career Pathways Innovation Fund.
      The conferees note that from November 2000 to November 
2009 manufacturing employment in the United States declined by 
more than 5.5 million jobs. The conferees encourage the 
Secretary to consider competitive grant opportunities to train 
and place returning veterans, the underemployed, high school 
graduates, and traditional manufacturing employees so they can 
achieve the skills necessary to fill jobs in growing sectors of 
the high skilled, high tech and precision manufacturing 
industry.
      The conferees direct the Department of Labor and the 
Department of Health and Human Services to establish an 
interagency taskforce and submit a strategic plan for 
addressing emerging needs in the health care sector, consistent 
with House Report 111-220.

            COMMUNITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT FOR OLDER AMERICANS

      The conference agreement includes $825,425,000 for 
Community Service Employment for Older Americans (CSEOA) 
instead of $615,425,000 as proposed by the House and 
$575,425,000 as proposed by the Senate. Within the total, 
$225,000,000 is available upon the enactment of this Act and 
shall remain available through December 31, 2011. Neither the 
House nor the Senate proposed a similar availability period.
      The conferees are aware that additional resources 
provided in the Recovery Act are insufficient to meet the needs 
of low-income older workers adversely impacted by the 
recession. Many CSEOA grantees are maintaining waiting lists 
for available community service jobs but are unable to fill 
those jobs due to funding limitations. In determining those 
current grantees that can effectively use funds made available 
immediately in this Act, the Secretary should take into account 
demonstrated need, financial management, and sustained and 
satisfactory performance.

     STATE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICE OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement includes $4,113,681,000 for 
State Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service Operations 
instead of $4,097,056,000 as proposed by the House and 
$4,113,806,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $60,000,000 for in-
person reemployment and eligibility assessments and 
unemployment insurance improper payment reviews. This amount 
includes $50,000,000 available for these purposes through a 
discretionary spending cap adjustment established in the fiscal 
year 2010 congressional budget resolution. In addition to 
increasing support for in-person reemployment and eligibility 
assessments, the Department should continue to make a portion 
of these funds available for technology-based overpayment 
prevention, detection, and collection activities. In fiscal 
year 2009, the Department funded State requests for technology-
based projects through a combination of the discretionary 
spending cap adjustment and the appropriation for State 
Operations for Unemployment Insurance. The conferees encourage 
continuation of this practice.
      The conference agreement includes $12,000,000 within One-
Stop Career Centers and Labor Market Information funding to 
carry out the language in Senate Report 111-66 regarding 
disability-related employment planning and activities. The 
Senate proposed $12,000,000 for these activities, along with an 
additional $12,000,000 in the Office of Disability Employment 
Policy (ODEP) account. The House proposed $10,000,000 in ODEP 
for similar activities.

        ADVANCES TO THE UNEMPLOYMENT TRUST FUND AND OTHER FUNDS

      The conference agreement includes such sums as necessary 
for Advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and Other Funds as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The conference 
agreement also includes bill language to reestablish the 
longstanding policy of making funds in this account available 
for two fiscal years. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed 
a similar provision.

                         PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement includes $147,656,000 for 
Program Administration instead of $146,406,000 as proposed by 
the House and $148,906,000 as proposed by the Senate.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $154,861,000 for the 
Employee Benefits Security Administration instead of 
$154,060,000 as proposed by the House and $155,662,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                  Employment Standards Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

              (INCLUDING RESCISSION AND TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $493,506,000 for the 
Employment Standards Administration (ESA) instead of 
$486,756,000 as proposed by the House and $498,956,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees support the Administration's reorganization 
of ESA to eliminate overlapping leadership and management 
positions. The conference agreement includes bill language to 
allow funds identified in the table accompanying this Act for 
ESA Program Direction and Support to be reallocated among the 
agencies included in this account or transferred to any other 
account within the Department for the same purposes. Neither 
the House nor the Senate proposed a similar provision.
      The conference agreement rescinds $50,000,000 from 
unobligated funds collected pursuant to section 286(v) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act instead of $65,000,000 as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The rescission is 
effective on September 30, 2010 as proposed by the House. The 
Senate proposed that the rescission be effective on September 
1, 2010. Sufficient funds will remain to enable the Department 
of Labor to conduct enforcement activities under the current 
legislative authority. The conference agreement also includes 
bill language in section 524 to provide additional authority 
for ESA to conduct enforcement programs and activities that 
focus on industries likely to employ nonimmigrants.

    Administrative Expenses, Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
                           Compensation Fund

      The conference agreement includes $51,900,000 for the 
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act 
(EEOICPA) instead of $51,197,000 as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate. The funding level reflects expansion of the 
Office of the Ombudsman's responsibilities to include claimants 
for benefits under Part B of the EEOICPA, as authorized by the 
National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $558,620,000 for the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) instead of 
$554,620,000 as proposed by the House and $561,620,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Within the funds provided for Federal Enforcement, the 
conferees intend for the Department to use the increase above 
the fiscal year 2009 funding level to continue a multi-year 
process of rebuilding OSHA's enforcement capacity and 
increasing the pace of standard setting.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
designating that grants to States shall be no less than 50 
percent of the costs of State occupational safety and health 
programs required to be incurred under plans approved by the 
Secretary as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed that 
grants to States may be up to 55 percent of the costs of State 
occupational safety and health programs.
      The conferees strongly urge the Secretary not to 
permanently redistribute any of the additional State Plan grant 
funding provided under this appropriation for which a State is 
unable to provide its required match in fiscal year 2010 
because of the pressures on State budgets. The Secretary is 
further urged to adopt past agency practice that would allow 
each State an opportunity next fiscal year to match and receive 
funding that is available but was not matched this fiscal year.
      The conferees believe that after every effort is made to 
allow State grant funds to be matched by States--consistent 
with past agency practice--any remaining funds that cannot be 
matched in fiscal year 2010 by States should be reprogrammed 
for Federal enforcement activities, consistent with section 516 
of this Act. Utilizing maximum flexibility to respond to 
individual State issues related to the match requirement, or 
reprogramming for Federal enforcement, will meet the goal of 
increasing resources that can lead to improved workplace safety 
and health for America's workers.
      The conferees include $1,000,000 within OSHA to continue 
a recordkeeping enforcement initiative on injury and illness 
recording, consistent with Senate Report 111-66. The House did 
not include a similar provision.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $357,293,000 for the 
Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) instead of 
$353,193,000 as proposed by the House and $357,143,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $2,000,000 over the 
budget request for MSHA to increase spot inspections in the 
active workings of coal mines for the purpose of obtaining 
compliance with section 202 of the Federal Coal Mine Health and 
Safety Act of 1969. The conferees expect MSHA to submit 
quarterly reports on enforcement of section 202 of such Act, 
including findings from the spot inspection program, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate. Within the amount available for standards 
development, the conference agreement provides sufficient 
funding for MSHA to conduct risk assessments for the proposed 
rules to reduce miners' exposure to respirable coal mine dust 
and silica and related regulatory activities.
      The conferees direct the Secretary to provide sufficient 
resources for the National Mine Safety and Health Academy and 
MSHA's Approval and Certification Center, consistent with 
Senate Report 111-66. The conference agreement continues to 
recognize the Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association as a 
principal safety association as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement does not make this recognition permanent 
as proposed by the House.
      Within the amount provided for Program Administration, 
the conference agreement provides $1,450,000 for an award to 
the United Mine Workers of America to continue a project, 
initiated with the fiscal year 2008 appropriation, for 
classroom and simulated rescue training for mine rescue teams 
as proposed by the Senate. The House did not include a similar 
provision.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $611,447,000 for the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) instead of $611,623,000 as 
proposed by the House and $611,271,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement continues bill language 
providing that the Current Employment Survey shall maintain the 
content of the survey issued prior to June 2005 with respect to 
the collection of data for the women worker series as proposed 
by the House. The Senate did not include a similar provision. 
The conferees include $1,300,000 within BLS funding to continue 
efforts to improve injury and illness data, consistent with 
Senate Report 111-66. The House did not include a similar 
provision.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $39,031,000 for the 
Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP) as proposed by 
the Senate instead of $37,031,000 as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes $12,000,000 within ODEP 
funding to carry out the language in Senate Report 111-66 
regarding disability-related employment planning and 
activities. The Senate proposed $12,000,000 for these 
activities, along with an additional $12,000,000 in the ETA 
account. The House included $10,000,000 in the ODEP account for 
similar activities.

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $355,154,000 for 
Departmental Management instead of $350,154,000 as proposed by 
the House and $357,154,000 as proposed by the Senate.
International Labor Affairs Bureau
      The conference agreement includes $92,669,000 for the 
International Labor Affairs Bureau (ILAB) instead of 
$91,419,000 as proposed by the House and $93,919,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement also includes 
new language providing ILAB with an extra quarter to obligate 
funding for its technical assistance programs and authority to 
support microfinance activities. The conferees take this action 
to better enable ILAB to design its international labor 
activities, confirm government support for proposed programs 
and collaborate closely with the State Department and other 
program partners in effectively utilizing this appropriation.
      The conference agreement designates $40,000,000 for the 
United States' contribution to the International Labour 
Organization's International Program for the Elimination of 
Child Labor in order to expand this successful effort. The 
conference agreement also designates $20,000,000 to continue 
the program of basic education grants in countries where the 
growing numbers of children removed from abusive and 
exploitative child labor need access to basic education, to be 
administered in accordance with Senate Report 111-66.
      In addition, the conference agreement designates 
$6,500,000 to continue support for the implementation of model 
programs designed to address worker rights in countries with 
which the United States has trade preference programs as 
proposed by the House. The Senate included a similar directive 
in its report.
      The conferees also support the Department's proposed 
spending priorities for research, policy, reporting, and 
administration--as identified in the congressional budget 
justification. The increased funding level over fiscal year 
2009 is sufficient to support an additional 12 full-time 
equivalents (FTE)--consistent with House Report 111-220--
including 4 FTEs for the Office of Child Labor, Forced Labor, 
and Human Trafficking.
Legal Services
      For Legal Services, the conferees agree that the 
increased funding level over fiscal year 2009 is intended to 
include adequate enforcement support for the Mine Safety and 
Health Administration.

                          OFFICE OF JOB CORPS

      The conference agreement provides $1,708,205,000 for the 
Office of Job Corps instead of $1,705,320,000 as proposed by 
the House and $1,711,089,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes sufficient funds, 
together with funds from previous fiscal years, to support 
construction of a new Job Corps center previously approved 
through the competitive bidding process. The conference 
agreement also includes sufficient funds to initiate a 
competition for two new Job Corps centers. In the selection 
process, the conferees direct the Department to follow guidance 
provided in House Report 111-220 and Senate Report 111-66 
regarding the criteria to be considered in selecting two new 
sites.

                    VETERANS EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING

      The conference agreement includes $256,127,000 for 
Veterans Employment and Training instead of $257,127,000 as 
proposed by the House and $255,127,000 as proposed in the 
Senate.

                           General Provisions

                             OPERATING PLAN

      The conference agreement continues a provision 
prohibiting the obligation of funds for demonstration, pilot, 
multiservice, research, and multistate projects under section 
171 of the Workforce Investment Act prior to the submission of 
a report on the planned use of such funds as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not include a similar provision.

                  WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement continues a provision requiring 
that the Secretary of Labor take no action to amend the 
definition established in 20 CFR 667.220 for functions and 
activities under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 or to modify the procedure for designation of local areas 
as specified in that Act until such time as legislation 
reauthorizing the Act is enacted as proposed by the Senate. The 
House did not include a similar provision.

                             TRANSFER PLAN

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conferees direct the Secretary to submit a plan for 
the transfer of the administration of the Job Corps program 
from the Office of the Secretary to the Employment and Training 
Administration as proposed by the House. Not less than 30 days 
after submitting the plan to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Secretary 
may transfer the administration and appropriation of the Job 
Corps program from the Office of the Secretary and the 
provisions of section 102 of Public Law 109-149 shall no longer 
be applicable. The Senate bill contained a similar provision.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                     HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES

      The conference agreement includes $7,498,522,000 for 
health resources and services, of which $7,473,522,000 is 
provided as budget authority and $25,000,000 is made available 
under section 241 of the Public Health Service Act instead of 
$7,331,817,000 as proposed by the House and $7,263,799,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
designating $1,000,000 of funding for Rural Flexibility Grants 
to telehealth services, including pilots and demonstrations 
using electronic health records to coordinate rural veterans 
care with the Department of Veterans Affairs VISTA-Electronic 
Health Record. The Senate proposed $2,000,000 for this 
activity. The House did not propose funding.
      The conference agreement includes $800,000 within Rural 
Outreach Grants for the community health integration models 
demonstration authorized in the Medicare Improvements for 
Patients and Providers Act of 2008 as proposed by the Senate. 
The House did not propose to fund the demonstration.
      The conferees intend that telehealth funding may be used 
for new and existing regional and national resource centers 
that focus on operational clinical, statutory, or regulatory 
barriers to the delivery of telehealth services including 
credentialing and licensure and the establishment of one or 
more resource centers focused on telehomecare. The Senate 
proposed similar language. The House did not propose language.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
allocating funding for base grant adjustments for existing 
community health centers as proposed by the House. The Senate 
did not propose a similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes no less than the fiscal 
year 2009 funding level for Native Hawaiian Health Care 
activities within the Community Health Centers program as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose similar 
language.
      The conferees expect that the $75,000,000 included for 
State Health Access Grants will be awarded in the same manner 
and with the same requirements as in fiscal year 2009 
consistent with House Report 111-220. The Senate did not 
propose similar language.
      The conference agreement includes bill language providing 
$1,932,865,000 for Parts A and B of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS 
Treatment Modernization Act, to be available through September 
30, 2012, as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed 
$1,916,873,000.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the House limiting 2009 program year reductions in Ryan White 
Part A grants for metropolitan and transitional areas to 7.6 
percent by providing $6,021,000 for supplemental grants for 
fiscal year 2009. The Senate bill did not propose similar 
language.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by both the House and Senate continuing legislative 
authority for Ryan White activities through fiscal year 2010. 
This language is not necessary because the reauthorization for 
the program has recently been signed into law.
      The conferees intend that the Health Resources and 
Services Administration (HRSA) allocate funds for the Minority 
AIDS Initiative within the Ryan White HIV Programs at a level 
above the fiscal year 2009 funding level. The House proposed a 
specific level of funding, and the Senate proposed funding at 
no less than the fiscal year 2009 level for the Minority AIDS 
Initiative.
      The conference agreement includes bill language setting 
aside $92,551,000 for Special Projects of Regional and National 
Significance (SPRANS) as proposed by the Senate instead of 
$92,649,000 as proposed by the House. The conference agreement 
assumes the following set-asides within SPRANS:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Budget activity             House        Senate      Conference
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oral Health...................    $4,859,000    $4,859,000    $4,859,000
Epilepsy......................     4,000,000     3,416,000     3,708,000
Sickle Cell...................     3,774,000     3,774,000     3,774,000
First-time Motherhood.........     4,956,000     4,956,000     4,956,000
Doulas........................     1,504,000     1,504,000     1,504,000
Fetal Alcohol Syndrome........             0       486,000       486,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      In addition to the SPRANS funding for Oral Health 
activities, an additional $17,500,000 is included for Dental 
Health Improvement Act State grants (authorized under section 
340G of the Public Health Service Act) within Allied Health. 
The House proposed $20,000,000 for these State grants. The 
Senate proposed $10,000,000.
      The conferees intend that doula demonstration funding be 
allocated evenly among urban and rural settings, with an 
emphasis on breastfeeding initiation and retention as proposed 
by the Senate. The House proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement includes bill language that 
identifies not less than $7,575,000 for General Dentistry 
programs and not less than $7,575,000 for Pediatric Dentistry 
programs, including Faculty Loan Repayment, as proposed by the 
Senate. The House proposed $5,000,000 for the dentistry 
programs. The conference agreement also includes bill language 
stating that Dental Faculty Loan Repayments shall be made using 
the same terms and conditions as the Nursing Faculty Loan 
Repayment program unless otherwise authorized. This is similar 
to language proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose 
comparable language.
      The conferees expect HRSA to use National Health Service 
Corps recruitment funds only to support multi-year, rather than 
single year, commitments consistent with Senate Report 111-66. 
The House did not propose similar language.
      The conferees are aware that the National Health Service 
Corps may require fewer amendments to contracts made under the 
Recovery Act than were anticipated. The conferees intend that 
funds provided in the Recovery Act for amendments may also be 
used for new scholar and loan repayment awards. The conferees 
also intend that Recovery Act funds provided for National 
Health Service Corps field operations may be used to fund 
multi-year contracts that support the orientation, monitoring, 
compliance, and relocation of scholar and loan repayment 
awardees who received funding through the Recovery Act.
      The conference agreement includes funding for Allied 
Health Training programs as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Budget activity                               House          Senate        Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
State Dental Health Grants......................................     $20,000,000     $10,000,000     $17,500,000
Chiropractic-medical School Demo Grants.........................       1,945,000       1,945,000       1,945,000
Graduate Psychology Training....................................       1,945,000       3,945,000       2,945,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees intend that the increase over fiscal year 
2009 funding for Public Health, Preventive Medicine, and Dental 
Public Health programs be used to expand fellowships and 
training in the area of Preventive Medicine as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose similar language.
      The conferees intend that, as proposed by the Senate, the 
funding increase over fiscal year 2009 for the Nurse Education, 
Practice, and Retention program be used to establish a new 
initiative to train nursing home aides and home health aides, 
with grants made to colleges or community-based training 
programs. The House did not propose this provision.
      The conference agreement includes bill language providing 
$10,000,000 as a direct lump sum payment to the Denali 
Commission as proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose 
funding for the Denali Commission. The conferees concur in the 
language proposed in Senate Report 111-66 regarding the 
allocation of Denali Commission funding. The House did not 
propose any Denali Commission language.
      The conference agreement includes bill language providing 
$35,000,000 for the Delta Health Initiative as authorized in 
section 219 of division G of Public Law 110-161, and associated 
administrative costs. The Senate proposed $40,000,000 for this 
initiative, which was not funded in the House bill.
      The conference agreement includes $338,002,000 within 
Health Care-related Facilities and Activities for the following 
projects in the following amounts:
        Project                                                   Amount
Adams State College, Alamosa, CO, for facilities and equipment 
    related to nurse training.................................   125,000
Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital, Barrington, IL for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................    70,000
Advocate South Suburban Hospital, Hazel Crest, IL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Advocates for a Healthy Community, Inc., Springfield, MO for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   750,000
Akron Children's Hospital, Akron, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, Anchorage, AK, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,000,000
Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, Anchorage, AK, for 
    training dental health care workers....................... 2,000,000
Alexandria Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., Alexandria, VA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   500,000
Alivio Medical Center, Chicago, IL, for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,000,000
All Children's Hospital, St. Petersburg, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, for equipment.....   100,000
Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA, for equipment.   300,000
Allied Services Foundation, Clarks Summit, PA, for 
    rehabilitation equipment..................................   100,000
Alton Memorial Hospital, Alton, IL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Altoona Regional Health System, Altoona, PA, for equipment....   100,000
AMDEC Foundation, New York, NY, for facilities and equipment 
    relating to medical research..............................   100,000
American Oncologic Hospital, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 
    Philadelphia, PA for facilities and equipment for the 
    American Russian Cancer Alliance.......................... 1,000,000
American Optometric Association, Alexandria, VA, to expand 
    vision screening programs.................................   500,000
American Optometric Association, Saint Louis, MO, to expand 
    vision screening programs in Iowa.........................    90,000
American Prosthodontic Society Foundation, Osceola Mills, PA, 
    for scholarships and program costs related to training in 
    prosthetic dentistry and clinical prosthodontics..........   100,000
American Red Cross Southeastern MI Blood Services Region, 
    Detroit, MI, for blood donation programs..................   200,000
American Red Cross, Columbus, OH, for purchase of vehicles to 
    serve rural areas.........................................   200,000
Anchorage Neighborhood Health Center, Anchorage, AK for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Anchorage Project Access, Anchorage, AK, for health care 
    coordination and supplies.................................   125,000
Angelina College, Lufkin, TX for purchase of equipment........   200,000
Anna Jacques Hospital, Newburyport, MA, for health information 
    technology................................................   200,000
Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, for facilities and 
    equipment related to rural health.........................   100,000
Arcadia Methodist Hospital, Arcadia, CA for an electronic 
    medical records initiative................................   750,000
Arkansas Department of Health, Little Rock, AR, for facilities 
    and equipment at the Marshallese Health Clinic............   240,000
Arkansas Methodist Medical Center, Paragould, AR for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Asher Community Health Center, Fossil, OR, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Ashtabula County Council on Aging, Inc., dba Ashtabula Senior 
    Center, Ashtabula, OH for facilities and equipment........   250,000
Asian Health Services, Oakland, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   275,000
Association for Utah Community Health, Salt Lake City, UT for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,350,000
Athol Memorial Hospital, Athol, MA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Atlantic Health System, Morristown, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   750,000
AtlantiCare, Egg Harbor Township, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Autism New Jersey, Ewing, NJ, for an autism patient navigator 
    project...................................................   100,000
Avis Goodwin Community Health Center, Dover, NH for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   225,000
Bacharach Institute for Rehabilitation, Pomona, NJ for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Bacon County Hospital, Alma, GA for facilities and equipment..   993,000
Baltimore Medical System, Baltimore, MD for facilities and 
    equipment for the Highlandtown Health Living Center.......   250,000
Baptist Health System, Jacksonville, FL, for equipment........   100,000
Baptist Hospitals of Southeast Texas, Beaumont, TX for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Barnesville Hospital, Barnesville, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   800,000
Bassett Hospital of Schoharie County dba Cobleskill Regional 
    Hospital, Cobleskill, NY for facilities and equipment.....   350,000
Baton Rouge General Medical Center, Baton Rouge, LA, for 
    facilities and equipment at a nursing facility............   200,000
Bay Area Medical Center, Marinette, WI, for health information 
    technology................................................   900,000
Bay Regional Medical Center, Bay City, MI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
BayCare Health System, Clearwater, FL for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,000,000
Bear Lake Memorial Hospital, Montpelier, ID for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Beebe Medical Center, Lewes, DE, for facilities and equipment.   100,000
Ben Archer Health Center, Hatch, NM for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Benefis Health System, Great Falls, MT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology, Boston, MA, for the 
    development of health profession training programs........   100,000
Bergen Regional Medical Center, Hackensack, NJ, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
Big Springs Medical Association, Inc dba Missouri Highlands 
    Health Care, Ellington, MO, for facilities and equipment.. 1,000,000
Billings Clinic, Billings, MT for a rural health outreach 
    program, including facilities and equipment...............   250,000
Bingham Memorial Hospital, Blackfoot, ID, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
BioInnovation Institute of Akron, Akron, OH for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,000,000
Bisbee Hospital Association, Bisbee, AZ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Bi-State Primary Care Association, Montpelier, VT, for 
    facilities, equipment and expansion of outreach and 
    education programs........................................   125,000
Blackstone Valley Community Health Care Inc, Pawtucket, RI, 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   500,000
Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   650,000
Bothwell Region Health Center, Sedalia, MO for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   370,000
Boulder City Hospital, Boulder City, NV, for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,000,000
Bradley Hospital, East Providence, RI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Branch-Hillsdale-St. Joseph Community Health Agency, 
    Coldwater, MI for facilities and equipment for a Hillsdale 
    public health dental clinic...............................   400,000
Bridgeport Hospital, Bridgeport, CT, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   325,000
Broadlawns Medical Center, Des Moines, IA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Bronx Regional Health Information Organization, Bronx, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   310,000
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, Bronx, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, Patchogue, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Brown University, Providence, RI, for facilities and equipment 
    relating to medical education.............................   116,000
Brownsville Community Development Corporation, Brooklyn, NY 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   400,000
Butler Hospital, Providence, RI, for equipment relating to 
    Alzheimer's disease.......................................   200,000
Cabell Huntington Hospital Foundation, Huntington, WV for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   650,000
Calhoun Liberty Hospital, Blountstown, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
California State University Channel Islands, Camarillo, CA for 
    nursing curriculum development, including purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   195,000
California State University San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   100,000
California State University, Bakersfield, CA for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
California State University, Long Beach, Department of 
    Nursing, Long Beach, CA for nursing programs..............   200,000
Camillus House, Inc., Miami, FL for facilities and equipment..   500,000
CARD Clinic, Libby, MT, for facilities and equipment related 
    to an asbestos surveillance initiative....................   550,000
CarePartners Foundation, Asheville, NC, for health information 
    systems including equipment...............................   300,000
Caribou Memorial Hospital, Soda Springs, ID, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Caring Health Center, Inc, Springfield, MA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Caritas Christi Health Care, Boston, MA for facilities and 
    equipment for Carney Hospital, Dorchester, MA.............   400,000
Caroline's Room/Community Foundation of Greater New Haven, New 
    Haven, CT for facilities and equipment....................   300,000
Cassia Regional Medical Center, Burley, ID, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Castleton State College, Castleton, VT, for a nursing program, 
    including equipment.......................................   500,000
Catholic Charities Free Health Care Center, Pittsburgh, PA, 
    for equipment.............................................   100,000
Catskill Regional Medical Center, Harris, NY for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, for equipment 
    and supplies for the Institute for Irritable Bowel 
    Syndrome Research.........................................   655,000
Centenary College of Louisiana, Shreveport, LA, for facilities 
    and equipment in health sciences..........................   500,000
Central Piedmont Community College, Charlotte, NC, for 
    facilities and equipment at the Health Sciences Simulation 
    Lab.......................................................   125,000
Central Suffolk Hospital dba Peconic Bay Medical Center, 
    Riverhead, NY for facilities and equipment................   100,000
Central Washington Hospital, Wenatchee, WA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
Charles A Dean Memorial Hospital and Nursing Home, Greenville, 
    ME, for facilities and equipment..........................   250,000
Charles Cole Memorial Hospital, Coudersport, PA, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Charles T. Sitrin Health Care Center, New Hartford, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Cherry Street Health Services, Grand Rapids, MI, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
Chicago Family Health Project, Chicago, IL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Chickaloon Native Village, Chickaloon, AK for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Child Protection Center, Sarasota, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Childersburg Medical Clinic Board, Childersburg, AL for 
    facilities and equipment at the Regional Diabetic Care and 
    Advanced Wound Care Center................................   200,000
Children's Health Fund, New York, NY, for facilities and 
    equipment at the South Bronx Health Center for Children 
    and Families..............................................   150,000
Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Children's Hospital and Clinics of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   675,000
Children's Hospital of KidsPeace, Orefield, PA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters Health System, 
    Chesapeake, VA for facilities and equipment...............   200,000
Children's Hospital of the King's Daughters, Norfolk, VA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Children's Hospital, Aurora, CO for facilities and equipment..   225,000
Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   450,000
Children's Institute of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
Children's Medical Center, Dallas, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital, Houston, TX, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Chinese Hospital, San Francisco, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Chippewa Valley Free Clinic, Eau Claire, WI, for electronic 
    health record equipment and implementation................    50,000
Chippewa Valley Hospital, Durand, WI, for electronic health 
    record equipment and implementation.......................   400,000
CHOICE Regional Health Network, Olympia, WA for rural health 
    outreach..................................................   115,000
CHRISTUS Health St. Francis Cabrini Hospital, Alexandria, LA 
    for an electronic medical records initiative..............   400,000
CHRISTUS Health System, Shreveport, LA for a rural health 
    initiative................................................   350,000
Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   500,000
Citizens for a Fair Ferndale, Hazel Park, MI for facilities 
    and equipment for Ferndale Free Clinic....................   150,000
City of Anchorage, AK, for facilities and equipment relating 
    to public health..........................................   125,000
City of Bethlehem, PA for facilities and equipment............   100,000
City of Hopewell, VA for facilities and equipment.............   257,000
City of Ketchikan, AK, for facilities and equipment at 
    Ketchikan General Hospital................................ 1,000,000
City of New Orleans, LA, for facilities and equipment at a 
    hospital in New Orleans East.............................. 1,000,000
City of Pendleton, OR, for facilities and equipment at the 
    Women Veterans Trauma Rehabilitation Center...............   150,000
City of Philadelphia, PA for facilities and equipment for 
    electronic health records.................................   535,000
City of Philadelphia, PA, for equipment to develop an 
    Electronic Parental Care Registry.........................   125,000
City of Springville, AL for facilities and equipment..........   250,000
City of Sumter, SC for facilities and equipment for Central 
    Carolina Technical College................................   250,000
City of Vineland, NJ for facilities and equipment.............   300,000
City of West Wendover, NV, for equipment for the West Wendover 
    Medical Clinic............................................   310,000
Clarian Health and Riley Hospital for Children, Indianapolis, 
    IN for facilities and equipment...........................   400,000
Clarian Health, Indianapolis, IN for facilities and equipment.   200,000
Clayton County Board of Commissioners, Jonesboro, GA for 
    facilities and equipment for Alzheimer's Disease services.   350,000
Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las Vegas, 
    NV, for equipment......................................... 1,300,000
Clinica Family Health Services, Lafayette, CO for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Clinica Sierra Vista, Bakersfield, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   550,000
Clinicas de Salud del Pueblo, Inc., Brawley, CA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
Clinics of Hope, USA, Knoxville, TN for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Coastal Bend College, Beeville, TX for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   220,000
Coastal Medical Access Project, Brunswick, GA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Cobb County Government, Marietta, GA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Codman Square Health Center, Dorchester, MA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Coeur d'Alene Tribe, Plummer, ID, for facilities and equipment   100,000
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring, NY, for equipment.   500,000
College of Notre Dame of Maryland, Baltimore, MD for 
    facilities and equipment for the school of pharmacy.......   450,000
College of Southern Maryland, La Plata, MD for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
College of St. Catherine, St. Paul, MN for health professions 
    training..................................................   600,000
College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, MN for a rural health 
    technology project........................................   550,000
Collier County, FL for a health care access network for the 
    uninsured, including purchase of equipment................   600,000
Colorado State University--Pueblo, Pueblo, CO, for facilities 
    and equipment related to nurse training...................   400,000
Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, CO for facilities and 
    equipment for a biocontainment training facility..........   500,000
Columbus Community Hospital, Columbus, WI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Columbus County Department of Aging and Adult Services, 
    Whiteville, NC for facilities and equipment...............   450,000
Columbus Regional Hospital, Columbus, IN for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
Commonwealth Medical Education, Scranton, PA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Community Care Services, Taunton, MA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Community Health Alliance of Pasadena, Pasadena, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Community Health Center of Franklin County, Inc., Turners 
    Falls, MA for facilities and equipment....................   200,000
Community Health Center's Inc, Middletown, CT, for residency 
    training for nurse practitioners..........................   225,000
Community Health Centers of the Rutland Region, Bomoseen, VT, 
    for equipment.............................................   125,000
Community Health Center's, Inc, Middletown, CT, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Community Health Development, Inc., Uvalde, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   600,000
Community Health Integrated Partnership, Inc., Glen Burnie, MD 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   650,000
Community Health Service Agency, Greenville, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
Community Hospital Association, Inc., Fairfax, MO for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Community Medical Center, Missoula, MT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Community Medical Center, Toms River, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Hartford, CT, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   325,000
Connecticut State University System, Hartford, CT, for a 
    nursing education program.................................   300,000
Cook Children's Medical Center, Fort Worth, TX, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Cooper Health System, Camden, NJ for facilities and equipment.   200,000
Cornerstone Care, Greensboro, PA, for outreach and supplies to 
    expand dental care........................................   100,000
Corry Memorial Hospital Association, Corry, PA, for equipment.   100,000
Cortland Regional Medical Center, Inc., Cortland, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
County Commissioners of Charles County, MD, La Plata, MD for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
County of Brunswick, Bolivia, NC for facilities and equipment.   250,000
County of Custer, ID for facilities and equipment.............   400,000
County of Hood River, OR for facilities and equipment.........   150,000
County of Sarasota, FL for facilities and equipment...........   350,000
County of Washington, Hillsboro, OR for facilities and 
    equipment for a mental health clinic......................   350,000
County of Washington, Plymouth, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Cove-Union-Powder Medical Association, Union, OR, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Creighton University, Omaha, NE for facilities and equipment.. 1,000,000
Cullman Regional Medical Center, Cullman, AL for facilities 
    and equipment............................................. 1,000,000
Curators of the University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   750,000
Cure Alzheimer's Fund, Wellesley Hills, MA, for equipment.....   150,000
Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, for facilities and 
    equipment at Center for Biomedical Imaging in Oncology....   200,000
Daniel Memorial, Inc., Jacksonville, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Daniels Memorial Hospital Association, Scobey, MT for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
DCH Health System, Northport, AL for facilities and equipment.   350,000
DCH Health System/Fayette Medical Center, Fayette, AL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
Delaware State University, Dover, DE, for facilities and 
    equipment related to public health training...............   100,000
Delta Dental of Iowa, Ames, IA, for the Rural Dental Health 
    Initiative................................................   150,000
Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   750,000
Denver Health and Hospital Authority, Denver, CO for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
DeSales University, Center Valley, PA, for medical education 
    laboratory upgrades, including the purchase of equipment..   100,000
Devereux Foundation, Rockledge, FL, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Dillard University, New Orleans, LA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Drake University, Des Moines, IA, for equipment and laboratory 
    supplies for health sciences education....................   400,000
Drew Memorial Hospital, Monticello, AR, for equipment.........   100,000
Dubois Regional Medical Center, Dubois, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
DuPage County Health Department, Wheaton, IL for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
E.J. Noble Hospital, Gouverneur, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   222,000
East End Health Alliance, Greenport, NY, to implement an 
    electronic health record system...........................   500,000
East Harlem Council for Human Services, Inc., New York, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Easter Seals, Chicago, IL, for facilities and equipment at a 
    center for autism research................................   250,000
Easter Seals-Goodwill Northern Rocky Mountain, Inc., Great 
    Falls, MT for facilities and equipment....................   500,000
Eastside Eye Care Clinic, San Antonio, TX for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Edgerton Care Center, Edgerton, WI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Edward Waters College, Jacksonville, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Eisenhower Medical Center, Rancho Mirage, CA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   350,000
El Proyecto del Barrio Inc., Arleta, CA for facilities and 
    equipment for a community health clinic in Winnetka, CA...   300,000
Elk Regional Health Center, St Marys, PA, for equipment.......   100,000
Ellwood City Hospital, Ellwood City, PA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Endless Mountains Health Systems, Montrose, PA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   700,000
Enrichment Center of Hernando County, Brooksville, FL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
Erie County Medical Center Corporation, Buffalo, NY, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Excela Health Frick Hospital, Mt. Pleasant, PA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
Excela Health Westmoreland Hospital, Latrobe, PA, to implement 
    an electronic health record system........................   200,000
Family Health Centers of San Diego, San Diego, CA, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Family Health Centers Worcester, Worcester, MA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Family Service of RI, Providence, RI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Ferrum College, Ferrum, VA for facilities and equipment.......   400,000
Flambeau Hospital, Park Falls, WI for facilities and equipment   750,000
Fletcher Allen Health Care, Burlington, VT, for the Hospital-
    National Guard Training Collaborative, including equipment   750,000
Florida Blood Services, St. Petersburg, FL for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Florida Community College at Jacksonville, FL for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Florida Hospital Altamonte, Altamonte Springs, FL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Florida Southern College, Lakeland, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Floyd Medical Center, Rome, GA for facilities and equipment...   250,000
Forsyth Institute, Boston, MA for facilities and equipment....   450,000
FoundCare, Palm Springs, FL for facilities and equipment......   200,000
Franciscan Hospital for Children, Boston, MA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
Frank R. Howard Foundation, Willits, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Free Clinics of Iowa, Des Moines, IA, for coordination of care   350,000
Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus Foundation, Lake 
    Success, NY, for a New Jersey mobile eye care screening 
    initiative................................................   100,000
Fulton County Medical Center, McConnellsburg, PA, for 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI, for facilities and 
    equipment at the Health Occupations Laboratory............   500,000
Geisinger Health System, Harrisburg, PA, for equipment........   100,000
Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, GA, for health 
    professions training......................................   100,000
Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA for purchase of equipment.....   250,000
Good Samaritan Hospital, Los Angeles, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Goodall Hospital, Sanford, ME, for facilities and equipment...   250,000
Gordon Hospital, Calhoun, GA for an electronic medical records 
    system....................................................   150,000
Graceland University, Lamoni, IA for facilities and equipment.   150,000
Grady Health System, Atlanta, GA for facilities and equipment. 1,100,000
Grand Rapids Public Schools, Grand Rapids, MI for facilities 
    and equipment at the Central Health Science Campus........   500,000
Griffin Hospital, Derby, CT for facilities and equipment......   350,000
Grimes St. Joseph Health Center, Navasota, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
Gritman Medical Center, Moscow, ID, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Gulf County Health Department, Port St. Joe, FL for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Halifax Community College, Weldon, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Hamilton Memorial Hospital, McLeansboro, IL for an electronic 
    medical records initiative................................   200,000
Hamot Medical Center, Erie, PA, for equipment.................   100,000
Hancock Medical Center, Bay Saint Louis, MS for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Hanover Hospital, Hanover, PA for an electronic medical 
    records initiative........................................   450,000
Happiness House/Finger Lakes Cerebral Palsy Association, 
    Geneva, NY for facilities and equipment...................    30,000
Harnett County Central Campus Hospital, Dunn, NC for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX for facilities 
    and equipment for the Nurse Call Triage System............   100,000
Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX for radiological 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX, for facilities 
    and equipment including STAN fetal heart monitors.........   150,000
Harrison Memorial Hospital, Cynthiana, KY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Hartford Hospital, Hartford, CT, for facilities and equipment.   325,000
Hays Medical Center, Hays, KS, for facilities and equipment...   250,000
Health Alliance, Lake Katrine, NY for facilities and equipment   300,000
Healthy Connections Network, Akron, OH, for the Access to Care 
    Initiative................................................   150,000
Healthy Learners Midlands, Columbia, SC for rural health 
    outreach..................................................   110,000
Helping Kids Clinic, Las Vegas, NV, for medical supplies and 
    supportive services.......................................   200,000
Hendricks Regional Health, Danville, IN for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   550,000
Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital, Valencia, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
Hidalgo County Health Department, Edinburg, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   380,000
Highland Community Hospital, Hattiesburg, MS for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Highlands Hospital, Connellsville, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Holy Name Hospital, Teaneck, NJ for facilities and equipment..   500,000
Holy Spirit Healthcare System, Camp Hill, PA, for equipment...   100,000
Holyoke Medical Center, Holyoke, MA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Hormel Institute, Austin, MN, for facilities and equipment 
    related to biomedical research............................ 1,000,000
Hospice of Tuscarawas County, Inc., Dover, OH for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
Hospital Authority of Jefferson County, Louisville, GA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Hospital Cooperative, Pocatello, ID, for electronic medical 
    records...................................................   200,000
Houlton Regional Hospital, Houlton, ME for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Houston Community College, Houston, TX, for health professions 
    training..................................................   250,000
Howard Community College, Columbia, MD, for facilities and 
    equipment related to healthcare workforce training........ 1,000,000
Hudson Headwaters Health Network, Queensbury, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
Hudson River HealthCare, Inc., Peekskill, NY for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
Huguley Memorial Medical Center, Burleson, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   380,000
Hunter Health Clinic, Wichita, KS, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint, MI for facilities and equipment.   500,000
Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Idaho Caring Foundation for Children, Boise, ID for dental 
    services for low-income children..........................   300,000
Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Illinois Capital Development Board, Springfield, IL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Illinois State University, Normal, IL for curriculum 
    development...............................................   500,000
Indian Health Center of Santa Clara County, San Jose, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Indiana Regional Medical Center, Indiana, PA for an electronic 
    medical records initiative................................   350,000
Infirmary Health System, Mobile, AL for an electronic medical 
    records initiative........................................   250,000
Ingham Regional Medical Center, Lansing, MI for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Intermountain Healthcare Foundation, Salt Lake City, UT, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Iowa CareGivers Association, Des Moines, IA, for training and 
    support of certified nurse assistants.....................   300,000
Iowa Healthcare Collaborative, Des Moines, IA, to establish 
    Lean healthcare services in collaboration with Pittsburgh 
    Regional Health...........................................   750,000
Iowa State University, Ames, IA for facilities and equipment..   650,000
Iowa State University, Ames, IA for facilities and equipment.. 1,500,000
Iowa Western Community College, Council Bluffs, IA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
J.C. Blair Memorial Hospital, Huntingdon, PA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   180,000
Jackson Health System, Miami, FL for health information 
    technology upgrades.......................................   500,000
Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, for the Southern 
    Institute for Mental Health Advocacy, Research, and 
    Training.................................................. 1,000,000
Jacksonville University, Jacksonville, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Jamaica, NY for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Jasper Memorial Hospital, Monticello, GA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Jellico Community Hospital, Jellico, TN, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Jenkins County Hospital, Millen, GA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Jewish Healthcare Foundation, Pittsburgh, PA, to expand web-
    based training programs...................................   100,000
Jewish Hospital & St. Mary's Foundation, Louisville, KY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
JFK Medical Center, Edison, NJ for facilities and equipment...   300,000
John Kanzius Cancer Research Foundation, Erie, PA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   700,000
John T. Mather Memorial Hospital, Port Jefferson, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   450,000
Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
Kadlec Medical Center, Richland, WA, for facilities and 
    equipment to expand the pediatric center..................   550,000
Kaleida Health, Buffalo, NY for facilities and equipment......   300,000
Kaweah Delta Hospital Foundation, Visalia, CA, for facilities 
    and equipment for the Kaweah Delta Health Care District...   500,000
Kennesaw State University, Kennesaw, GA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Kent County Memorial Hospital, Warwick, RI, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Kiddazzle Dental Network, Inc, Lake Oswego, OR, for equipment 
    and supplies related to pediatric dental services.........   100,000
Kiowa County Hospital, Greensburg, KS, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
KVC Behavioral Health Care, Kansas City, KS for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
La Porte Regional Health System, La Porte, IN for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   350,000
La Rabida Children's Hospital, Chicago, IL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   325,000
Laboure College, Dorchester, MA, to develop and expand nursing 
    education programs........................................   200,000
Lahey Clinic Medical Center, Inc, Burlington, MA, for 
    facilities and equipment relating to the emergency 
    department................................................   300,000
Lake City Community College, Lake City, FL for purchase of 
    mobile clinical training laboratories.....................   250,000
Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine, Erie, PA, for 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Lake Hospital System, Painesville, OH for an electronic 
    medical records initiative................................   500,000
Lakeland Community College, Kirtland, OH for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Lamar University, Beaumont, TX for the Community and 
    University Partnership Service, including facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Lamprey Health Care, Inc., Newmarket, NH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Lanai Community Health Center, Lanai City, HI, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Lane Community College, Eugene, OR for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Lane Regional Medical Center, Baton Rouge, LA, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
LBJ Tropical Medical Center, Pago Pago, AS for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   700,000
Le Moyne College, Syracuse, NY, for facilities and equipment 
    relating to health professions training...................   500,000
Lehigh Valley Coalition for Kids, Allentown, PA to purchase 
    and equip mobile health clinics...........................   150,000
Lehigh Valley Hospital, Allentown, PA, for equipment..........   100,000
Lewis and Clark County, Helena, MT, for facilities and 
    equipment at the City-County Health Department............   100,000
Lewis-Clark State College, Lewiston, ID, for health 
    professions training......................................   100,000
Little Rivers Health Care, Bradford, VT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, Long Beach, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
Los Angeles Southwest College, Los Angeles, CA for health 
    professions training......................................   300,000
Lowell Community Health Center, Lowell, MA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
Lutheran Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Lutheran Social Services of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   450,000
Mackinac Straits Health System, Inc., St. Ignace, MI for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Madison Area Technical College, Madison, WI, for health 
    training equipment........................................   300,000
Madison County Health Care Center, Winterset, IA for an 
    electronic medical records initiative.....................   250,000
Madison County Memorial Hospital, Rexburg, ID for an 
    electronic medical records initiative.....................   350,000
Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital, Lincoln, NE for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   650,000
Maine State Board of Nursing, Augusta, ME, for nursing 
    education and workforce data collection, analysis and 
    planning..................................................   150,000
Manchester Community College, Manchester, CT, for medical 
    diagnostic and treatment equipment........................   120,000
Manchester Community Health Center, Manchester, NH for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Maniilaq Association, Kotzebue, AK, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Marcus Autism Center, Atlanta, GA, to expand services for 
    children and adolescents with developmental disabilities..   300,000
Marian Medical Center, Santa Maria, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI for rural dental health 
    outreach..................................................   850,000
Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, WI for facilities and equipment 1,000,000
Martin Methodist College, Pulaski, TN for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,000,000
Mary Queen of Vietnam Community Development Corporation, New 
    Orleans, LA for facilities and equipment..................   400,000
Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Baltimore, 
    MD for facilities and equipment........................... 2,500,000
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
    Worcester, MA for health professions training.............   400,000
Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, for health 
    education at the Lanai'I Women's Initiative...............   100,000
Maui Medical Center, Wailuku, HI, for facilities and equipment 
    at the Simulation Center..................................   100,000
McCurtain Memorial Hospital, Idabel, OK for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
McKay-Dee Hospital Center, Ogden, UT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Meadville Medical Center, Meadville, PA, for equipment........   100,000
Medical University of South Carolina--Hollings Cancer Center, 
    Charleston, SC for facilities and equipment...............   200,000
Memorial Healthcare System, Hollywood, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Memorial Hermann Foundation, Houston, TX for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Memorial Hermann Healthcare System, Houston, TX for facilities 
    and equipment............................................. 1,000,000
Memorial Hospital at Gulfport, Gulfport, MS, for the Stroke 
    Education and Prevention Community Network................   475,000
Memorial Hospital, Miramar, FL for facilities and equipment...   250,000
Mena Regional Health System, Mena, AR for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
Mental Health Association in High Point, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   247,000
Mercer County Commission, Princeton, WV, for facilities and 
    equipment at the Health Department........................ 4,000,000
Mercy Health Foundation, Durango, CO for facilities and 
    equipment for a primary health clinic in La Plata County..   700,000
Mercy Medical Center--North Iowa, Mason City, IA for an 
    electronic medical records initiative.....................   350,000
Mercy Medical Center, Des Moines, IA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Meridian Health, Neptune, NJ for facilities and equipment.....   100,000
Methodist Hospital System, Houston, TX, for a mobile medical 
    unit......................................................   150,000
Methodist University, Fayetteville, NC, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Metropolitan Community College, Omaha, NE, for facilities and 
    equipment relating to healthcare training.................   300,000
Metropolitan Family Health Network, Jersey City, NJ, for 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Metropolitan State University, St Paul, MN, to expand nursing 
    education.................................................   150,000
Miami Beach Community Health Center, North Miami, FL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Miami Children's Hospital, Miami, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged, Miami, FL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Middlesex Community College, Bedford, MA for facilities and 
    equipment for the Lowell dental hygiene clinic............   450,000
Mid-Illinois Medical District, Springfield, IL for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
MidState Medical Center, Meridien, CT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Milwaukee Health Services, Milwaukee, WI for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Milwaukee Public Schools, Milwaukee, WI, for outreach and 
    supplies to expand dental care............................   200,000
Minot State University, Minot, ND for its Great Plains Autism 
    Treatment Program.........................................   800,000
Misericordia University, Dallas, PA, for facilities and 
    equipment for the College of Health Sciences..............   100,000
Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians, Choctaw, MS, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   175,000
Mississippi Blood Services, Jackson, MS, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Mississippi Primary Health Care Association, Jackson, MS, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   700,000
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, for 
    biomedical engineering facilities and equipment...........   750,000
Missouri Baptist Hospital, St. Louis, MO for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Missouri Coalition for Primary Health Care, Jefferson City, 
    MO, for facilities and equipment..........................   750,000
Missouri State University, Springfield, MO, for a nursing 
    clinical simulation laboratory, including facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL for the Cancer LifeLink 
    Program...................................................   700,000
Molokai Ohana Health Center, Kaunakakai, HI, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   750,000
Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Monongahela Valley Hospital, Monongahela, PA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
Monongalia General Hospital, Morgantown, WV for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Montana Tech, Butte, MT, to expand health informatics 
    training, including equipment.............................   100,000
Montana Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council, Billings, MT for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Montgomery College, Rockville, MD for facilities and equipment   550,000
Morehead State University, Morehead, KY for a rural health 
    initiative................................................   250,000
Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Morgan Hospital and Medical Center, Martinsville, IN, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Morris College, Sumter, SC for facilities and equipment.......   275,000
Morrisania Diagnostic and Treatment Center, Bronx, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Mount Nittany Medical Center, State College, PA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
Mount Saint Mary College, Newburgh, NY, for nurse training 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Mount St. Mary's Hospital, Lewiston, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
MultiCare Health System, Tacoma, WA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Murphy Medical Center, Murphy, NC for facilities and equipment   350,000
Murray State University, Breathitt Veterinary Center, 
    Hopkinsville, KY, for facilities and equipment............   450,000
Nanticoke Senior Center, Seaford, DE for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Nathan Littauer Hospital Association, Gloversville, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
National Association of Hispanic Nurses, Washington, DC for 
    health professions training...............................   500,000
National Kidney Registry, Babylon, NY for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   177,000
Native Women's Health Care, Rapid City, SD for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................    60,000
Navos, Seattle, WA, for facilities and equipment at a mental 
    health center.............................................   500,000
NC Dental Health Fund, Cary, NC for facilities and equipment 
    for the Missions of Mercy (MOM) free dental clinics.......   300,000
Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   350,000
Nevada State College, Henderson, NV for nursing education 
    programs, which may include equipment and technology......   900,000
New Horizons Health System, Owenton, KY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY for facilities 
    and equipment for ophthalmology and otolaryngology surgery   150,000
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY for facilities 
    and ultrasound equipment..................................   200,000
New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, NY for 
    facilities and equipment at Columbus Medical in Reno Park, 
    Queens.................................................... 1,000,000
Newton Memorial Hospital, Newton, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Norman Regional Health System, Norman, OK for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,915,000
North Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro, NC, for the 
    development of nurse training programs....................   125,000
North General Hospital, New York, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
North Idaho College, Coeur d'Alene, ID, for health professions 
    training..................................................   100,000
North Shore Community College, Danvers, MA for facilities and 
    equipment for allied health training......................   200,000
North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System, Great Neck, NY 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   200,000
North Woods Community Health Center, Minong, WI for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Northeastern Ohio Universities Colleges of Medicine and 
    Pharmacy, Rootstown, OH for facilities and equipment......   200,000
Northern Dutchess Hospital, Rhinebeck, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Northern Oswego County Health Services, Inc., Pulaski, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Northwest Alabama Mental Health Center, Jasper, AL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
NorthWest Arkansas Community College, Bentonville, AR, for 
    expanding a nurse training program, including facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   500,000
Northwest Community Health Care, Pascoag, RI, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Northwest Hospital & Medical Center, Seattle, WA, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Northwest Mississippi Community College, Senatobia, MS, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Northwest Nazarene University, Nampa, ID, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, for health 
    information technology....................................   250,000
Oakland Primary Health Services, Pontiac, MI for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   500,000
Oglala Sioux Tribe, Pine Ridge, SD, for facilities and 
    equipment relating to emergency medicine..................   800,000
Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, 
    OH, for facilities and equipment..........................   900,000
Oklahoma City Community College, Oklahoma City, OK for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Oklahoma State University--Center for Health Sciences, Tulsa, 
    OK for purchase of equipment..............................   300,000
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Orange County Government, Orlando, FL, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Oregon Institute of Technology, Klamath Falls, OR for purchase 
    of equipment..............................................   100,000
Oregon Institute of Technology, Klamath Falls, OR for purchase 
    of equipment..............................................   250,000
OSF St. Francis Hospital and Medical Group, Escanaba, MI for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Our Lady of Resurrection Medical Center, Chicago, IL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   125,000
Ozark Tri-County Health Care Consortium, Neosho, MO for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Ozarks Medical Center, West Plains, MO for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
PACE Greater New Orleans, New Orleans, LA for facilities, 
    equipment, and services...................................   600,000
Pacific Northwest Diabetes Research Institute, Seattle, WA, 
    for equipment.............................................   150,000
Pacific Northwest University of Health Sciences, Yakima, WA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   400,000
Palisades Medical Center, North Bergen, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Palmer College, Davenport, IA, and the Myrna Brind Center of 
    Integrative Medicine in Philadelphia, PA, to develop a 
    model integrative healthcare program for the treatment of 
    pain......................................................   400,000
Palmetto Health Foundation, Columbia, SC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   375,000
Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX for facilities 
    and equipment for the Pharmacy Inpatient Robotics program.   500,000
Pen Bay Healthcare, Rockport, ME, for health professions 
    training..................................................   500,000
Pennsylvania State University--Altoona, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   320,000
Petaluma Health Center, Petaluma, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Peter Christensen Health Center, Lac du Flambeau, WI for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   140,000
Phoebe Putney Health System, Albany, GA, for health care 
    services for students.....................................   100,000
Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, AZ for facilities and 
    equipment for a Computerized Tomography (CT) scanner for 
    the emergency department..................................   200,000
Pine Rest Christian Mental Health Services, Grand Rapids, MI 
    for an electronic medical records initiative..............   200,000
PinnacleHealth System, Harrisburg, PA, for equipment..........   100,000
Pioneer Valley Life Science Institute, Springfield, MA, for 
    medical research equipment and technology.................   800,000
Pocono Medical Center, East Stroudsburg, PA, for facilities 
    and equipment relating to cancer..........................   100,000
Porter-Starke Services, Inc., Valparaiso, IN for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   550,000
Primary Care Association of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, to provide 
    service enhancements and outreach......................... 1,850,000
Providence Community Health Centers, Providence, RI, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
Providence Health and Services, Anchorage, AK for a physician 
    recruitment and retention initiative......................   350,000
Providence Hospital, Mobile, AL for facilities and equipment..   250,000
Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, Burbank, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
Providence St. Mary Medical Center, Walla Walla, WA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, Seattle, WA for 
    facilities and equipment for the Rainier Beach Medical and 
    Dental Clinic............................................. 1,100,000
Range Regional Health Services, Hibbing, MN for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Reading Hospital and Medical Center, Reading, PA, for 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Chippewa, Bayfield, WI for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   750,000
Redlands Community Hospital, Redlands, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Refuah, Spring Valley, NY for facilities and equipment........   390,000
Renown Health Systems, Reno, NV for facilities and equipment..   800,000
Renown Health, Reno, NV, for nursing programs, including 
    professional development..................................   390,000
Resurrection Health Care, Chicago, IL, for equipment..........   400,000
Rhode Island Free Clinic, Providence, RI, for supportive 
    services and supplies.....................................   100,000
Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, for equipment..........   100,000
Rice University, Houston, TX for facilities and equipment.....   450,000
Richland Parish Hospital, Delhi, LA for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,025,000
Richmond University Medical Center, Staten Island, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Riverside Community College District, Riverside, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
Riverside County Regional Medical Center, Moreno Valley, CA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   400,000
Riverside County Regional Medical Center, Moreno Valley, CA, 
    for a rural mobile health clinic..........................   100,000
Roane County Committee on Aging, Inc., Spencer, WV for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Rochester General Health System, Newark, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Rome Memorial Hospital Foundation, Rome, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Roper/St. Francis Hospital, Charleston, SC for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Rosebud, SD, for facilities and equipment 
    relating to emergency medical services....................   600,000
Sacred Heart Hospital, Allentown, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   450,000
Saddleback Memorial Medical Center, San Clemente, CA for an 
    electronic medical records initiative.....................   150,000
SafeHaven of Tarrant County, Fort Worth, TX for a domestic 
    violence prevention initiative............................   200,000
Saint Anselm College, Manchester, NH, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   800,000
Saint Barnabas Health Care System Foundation, West Orange, NJ, 
    for health information technology.........................   300,000
Saint Claire Regional Medical Center, Morehead, KY, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Saint Francis Hospital Foundation, Wilmington, DE, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   175,000
Saint Joseph College, West Hartford, CT, for equipment at the 
    School of Pharmacy........................................   175,000
Saint Joseph Hospital, Nashua, NH, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Saint Joseph's Mercy Health Foundation, Hot Springs, AR, for 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Saint Jude Children's Medical Center, Memphis, TN, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 3,111,000
Saint Luke's Hospital and Health Network, Bethlehem, PA, for 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Saint Mary's Hospital, Waterbury, CT, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   325,000
Saint Patrick Hospital, Missoula, MT, to implement an 
    electronic health record system...........................   300,000
Saint Vincent Healthcare Foundation, Billings, MT, for 
    facilities and equipment for the Montana Pediatric Project   350,000
Samuel U Rodgers Health Center Inc, Kansas City, MO, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,500,000
San Antonio Community Hospital, Upland, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   750,000
San Francisco Human Services Agency, San Francisco, CA for 
    facilities and equipment for the Child Advocacy Center....   350,000
San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA for 
    facilities and equipment for health professions training..   500,000
San Gorgonio Memorial Hospital, Banning, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   340,000
San Luis Obispo County Community College District, San Luis 
    Obispo, CA for facilities and equipment...................   100,000
San Ysidro Health Center, San Ysidro, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital System, San Jose, CA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   292,000
Santa Fe College, Gainesville, FL for facilities and equipment   150,000
Schuylkill Health System, Pottsville, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Seton Hill University, Greensburg, PA to develop the Advanced 
    Certificate in Orthodontics, including purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Shands Healthcare, Gainesville, FL, for equipment.............   100,000
Sharon Regional Health System, Sharon, PA, for equipment......   100,000
Shepherd Center, Atlanta, GA, for facilities and equipment....   200,000
Shore Memorial Hospital, Somers Point, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
Sierra County, Truth or Consequences, NM, for facilities and 
    equipment at the Sierra Vista Hospital....................   125,000
Signature Healthcare, Brockton, MA, for equipment.............   100,000
Sisters of Providence Health System, Springfield, MA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
Sisters of St. Francis Health Services, Inc., Olympia Fields, 
    IL for facilities and equipment...........................   350,000
Skagit Valley Hospital, Mount Vernon, WA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   800,000
Somerset Medical Center, Somerville, NJ for an electronic 
    medical records initiative................................   600,000
South Boston Community Health Center, Boston, MA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
South Shore Hospital, Chicago, IL for facilities and equipment   250,000
South Shore Hospital, Weymouth, MA, for equipment.............   300,000
Southeast Arkansas College, Pine Bluff, AR for facilities and 
    equipment for the nursing school..........................   200,000
Southeast Georgia Health System, Brunswick, GA for facilities 
    and equipment............................................. 1,000,000
Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau, MO for 
    the SHOW Mobile initiative................................   205,000
Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville, IL, for a nursing 
    education program, including equipment....................   500,000
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Southern Utah University, Cedar City, UT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Southwest Center for HIV/AIDS, Phoenix, AZ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Southwest Tennessee Community College, Memphis, TN, for health 
    professions training......................................   400,000
Sparrow Health System, Lansing, MI for an electronic medical 
    records initiative........................................   300,000
Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System, Spartanburg, SC, for 
    professional development..................................   500,000
Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids, MI for purchase of equipment...   200,000
SSM Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital, Saint Louis, MO, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,000,000
SSM St. Mary's Health Center, Jefferson City, MO for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
St. Ambrose University, Davenport, IA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
St. Bernardine Medical Center, San Bernardino, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
St. Bernardine Medical Center, San Bernardino, CA for 
    facilities and equipment for an MRI system................   500,000
St. Bernard's Development Foundation, Jonesboro, AR for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   400,000
St. Clare's Health System, Denville, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   600,000
St. Elizabeth Regional Health, Lafayette, IN for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
St. Francis Hospital, Charleston, WV for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   650,000
St. Francis Medical Center, Trenton, NJ for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
St. Francis Memorial Hospital, San Francisco, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
St. John West Shore Hospital, Westlake, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
St. John's Hospital, Berryville, AR for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
St. John's Hospital, Maplewood, MN for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   675,000
St. John's Riverside Hospital, Yonkers, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   250,000
St. Joseph Health System, Inc., Tawas City, MI for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   500,000
St. Joseph Hospital, Eureka, CA for facilities and equipment..   350,000
St. Joseph Hospital/Peace Health, Bellingham, WA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
St. Joseph of the Pines, Southern Pines, NC for purchase and 
    outfitting of a mobile health unit........................   453,000
St. Joseph's Mercy Care Services, Inc., Atlanta, GA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   200,000
St. Joseph's/Candler Health System, Savannah, GA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
St. Luke's Health System, Boise, ID for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
St. Mary's Hospital, Passaic, NJ for facilities and equipment.   950,000
St. Mary's Regional Medical Center, Reno, NV for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   700,000
St. Vincent Charity Hospital, Cleveland, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   700,000
St. Vincent Healthcare Foundation, Billings, MT for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   400,000
St. Vincent Mercy Medical Center, Toledo, OH for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
Staten Island University Hospital, Staten Island, NY for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
Stewart-Marchman-Act Foundation, Inc., Daytona Beach, FL for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   800,000
Straub Hospital Burn Center, Honolulu, HI, for equipment......   150,000
Suffolk County Department of Health Services, Hauppauge, NY, 
    to implement an electronic health record system...........   200,000
Summa Foundation, Akron, OH for facilities and equipment for 
    the Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities 
    Solutions.................................................   250,000
Sun Life Family Health Center, Casa Grande, AZ for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   300,000
Susquehanna Health, Williamsport, PA, for equipment...........   100,000
Taunton Nursing Home, Taunton, MA for facilities and equipment   650,000
Temple Health and Bioscience Economic Development District, 
    Temple, TX for facilities and equipment...................   750,000
Temple University Health System, Philadelphia, PA, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Tennessee Department of Health, Nashville, TN, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
Texas Health Harris Methodist Hospital Fort Worth, Ft. Worth, 
    TX for facilities and equipment...........................   300,000
Texas Health Institute, Austin, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El Paso, El 
    Paso, TX, for facilities and equipment....................   400,000
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
Texas Tech University Paul L Foster School of Medicine, El 
    Paso, TX, for facilities and equipment....................   100,000
Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   480,000
Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for the Center for the 
    Study of Addiction........................................   250,000
Texas Wesleyan University, Ft. Worth, TX for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   650,000
Texas Woman's University, Denton, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
The Manor, Jonesville, MI, for facilities and equipment at the 
    Treatment and Counseling Center...........................   150,000
Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   800,000
Touro University Nevada, Henderson, NV, for facilities and 
    equipment at the Gerontology Center.......................   750,000
Town of Gilbert, Gilbert, WV, for facilities and equipment for 
    a primary health care center.............................. 3,000,000
Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen), Phoenix, AZ 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   300,000
TriHealth, Cincinnati, OH, for facilities and equipment.......   100,000
Trinitas Health Foundation, Elizabeth, NJ, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Trinity Regional Medical Center, Ft. Dodge, IA for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   694,000
Troy University, Troy, AL for facilities and equipment........   500,000
Tulsa Fire Department, Tulsa, OK, for equipment...............   100,000
Tyrone Hospital, Tyrone, PA, for facilities and equipment.....   100,000
U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Health, St. Thomas, VI for 
    facilities and equipment for an Emergency Medical Services 
    Administrative and Clinical Health Center.................   500,000
U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Health, St. Thomas, VI for 
    facilities and equipment for the Eldra Schulterbrandt 
    Long-Term Care Facility...................................   200,000
UAW Local 1005, Parma, OH for facilities and equipment for a 
    health clinic.............................................   300,000
UMass Memorial Health Care, Worcester, MA, for health 
    information technology....................................   500,000
Union College, Barbourville, KY for facilities and equipment..   500,000
Union Hospital, Terre Haute, IN, for facilities and equipment.   100,000
Unity Health System, Rochester, NY for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   800,000
University Hospitals, Chardon, OH for an electronic medical 
    records initiative........................................   250,000
University Medical Center at Brackenridge, Austin, TX, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   150,000
University Medical Center Foundation, El Paso, TX for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
University Medical Center of Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, 
    for facilities and equipment for the Women's Care and 
    Birth Center.............................................. 1,500,000
University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................10,250,000
University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, 
    for facilities and equipment at the Winthrop P Rockefeller 
    Cancer Institute..........................................   750,000
University of California-Riverside, Riverside, CA for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 4,000,000
University of California, Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA 
    for facilities and equipment for the surgery and emergency 
    services pavilion.........................................   375,000
University of California-San Diego, San Diego, CA for health 
    professions training......................................   500,000
University of Colorado-Denver, Aurora, CO to expand physician 
    training in rural areas...................................   575,000
University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 
    for facilities and equipment for the Linda Crnic Institute 
    for Down Syndrome......................................... 1,500,000
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
University of Georgia, Athens, GA, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
University of Guam, Mangilao, GU for facilities and equipment.   400,000
University of Hawaii at Hilo, Hilo, HI, for a nurse training 
    program...................................................   350,000
University of Hawaii School of Medicine, Honolulu, HI, to 
    expand medical education..................................   200,000
University of Hawaii School of Nursing-Manoa, Honolulu, HI, 
    for nursing education, including equipment................   200,000
University of Illinois at Chicago College of Medicine at 
    Rockford, IL for facilities and equipment.................   250,000
University of Illinois-College of Medicine at Peoria, Peoria, 
    IL for facilities and equipment...........................   400,000
University of Iowa, Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, 
    for facilities and equipment for the Institute for 
    Biomedical Discovery...................................... 2,000,000
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, for facilities and 
    equipment at the College of Public Health................. 1,000,000
University of Kansas Medical Center, Wichita, KS for 
    development of the Clinical Skills Simulation Laboratory, 
    including curriculum development and purchase of equipment   500,000
University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,500,000
University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington, KY, for 
    data base design and equipment............................ 2,000,000
University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington, KY, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,300,000
University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington, KY, to 
    expand a heart disease prevention initiative in rural 
    Kentucky.................................................. 2,000,000
University of Louisiana at Monroe, Monroe, LA for facilities 
    and equipment, including purchase of a mobile dental unit.   840,000
University of Louisville Research Foundation, Louisville, KY, 
    for facilities and equipment.............................. 1,000,000
University of Louisville Research Foundation, Louisville, KY, 
    for facilities and equipment.............................. 1,000,000
University of Louisville Research Foundation, Louisville, KY, 
    for facilities and equipment.............................. 2,500,000
University of Louisville Research Foundation, Louisville, KY, 
    for health professions training and facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   800,000
University of Maine at Augusta, Augusta, ME, for facilities 
    and equipment at the Bangor dental clinic.................   650,000
University of Maryland Medical System, Baltimore, MD for 
    facilities and equipment for an emergency medical facility 
    in Queen Anne's County....................................   400,000
University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   750,000
University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 8,000,000
University of Mississippi, University, MS, for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 1,500,000
University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the Center for 
    Thermal Pharmaceutical Processing, including facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   600,000
University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, NV, for 
    facilities and equipment at the Center for Molecular 
    Medicine..................................................   750,000
University of North Alabama, Florence, AL for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   700,000
University of North Alabama, Florence, AL, for nursing 
    education and equipment...................................   100,000
University of North Carolina at Greensboro, Greensboro, NC, 
    for telespeech initiative including purchase of equipment.   300,000
University of North Texas, Denton, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
University of Oklahoma--College of Medicine, Tulsa, OK for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, for equipment 
    relating to cancer diagnostics and treatment..............   100,000
University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus, San Juan, 
    PR for facilities and equipment for the Unit of 
    Comparative Medicine......................................   300,000
University of Scranton, Scranton, PA, for nursing and allied 
    health programs, including the purchase of equipment......   100,000
University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL for facilities and 
    equipment................................................. 2,500,000
University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, for health 
    information systems including equipment...................   100,000
University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee, Tampa, FL for 
    nursing program facilities and equipment..................   250,000
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL for the Cancer Clinical 
    Trial project.............................................   500,000
University of Southern Maine, Portland, ME, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   775,000
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for a 
    relapse prevention program, including for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   500,000
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 2,750,000
University of St. Francis, Fort Wayne, IN for facilities and 
    equipment for nurse training..............................   200,000
University of Tennessee Medical Center, Knoxville, TN for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,350,000
University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   650,000
University of Texas at Brownsville, Brownsville, TX for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   500,000
University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, TX, for 
    facilities and equipment for MedBank......................   150,000
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, TX, 
    for facilities, equipment, and technology.................   300,000
University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler, TX, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   300,000
University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX for 
    facilities and equipment for the Center for Translational 
    Neoroinformatics..........................................   100,000
University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX for 
    facilities and equipment at the Center for Innovation in 
    Prevention and Treatment of Airway Diseases...............   150,000
University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX for 
    facilities and equipment at the Neurodegenerative and 
    Cognitive Dysfunction Center..............................   270,000
University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 
    for facilities and equipment.............................. 1,000,000
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, for health information 
    technology................................................ 1,500,000
Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   100,000
Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   500,000
Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for facilities 
    and equipment related to outbreak management..............   500,000
Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, to expand 
    Monticello Health Education and Screening Initiative......   600,000
Utah Personalized Health Care Institute at the University of 
    Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, to establish a personalized 
    medicine infrastructure...................................   100,000
Utah Valley University, Orem, UT, for health professions 
    development and equipment.................................   350,000
Valley Presbyterian Hospital, Van Nuys, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Van Wert County Hospital, Van Wert, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   840,000
Vanguard University, Costa Mesa, CA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   300,000
Variety--The Children's Charity of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 
    for facilities and equipment..............................    40,000
Vermont State Colleges, Randolph Center, VT, for equipment to 
    expand nursing programs...................................   700,000
Victor Valley Community Hospital, Victorville, CA for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA for facilities 
    and equipment for the Massey Cancer Center................   600,000
Virginia State University, Petersburg, VA, for facilities and 
    equipment to expand nursing programs......................   100,000
Visiting Nurse Services of Putnam County, Avon, IN for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   100,000
Visiting Nurse Services, Indianapolis, IN, for facilities and 
    equipment and health professions training.................   100,000
Visiting Nurses Association Healthcare Partners of Ohio, 
    Cleveland, OH for health professions training.............   200,000
Viterbo University, La Crosse, WI, for facilities and 
    equipment for the nursing school..........................   300,000
Wadsworth-Rittman Hospital Foundation, Wadsworth, OH for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   600,000
Wake County, Raleigh, NC, for facilities and equipment........   300,000
Wake Health Services, Inc., Raleigh, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   750,000
Warren Achievement Center, Inc., Monmouth, IL for rural health 
    outreach..................................................   100,000
Warren County Community College, Washington, NJ for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   350,000
Warren County Planning Commission, Warren, PA for health care 
    facilities and equipment..................................   350,000
Washington County Hospital, Hagerstown, MD for facilities and 
    equipment and for an electronic medical records initiative   750,000
Washington State University, Spokane, WA, for facilities and 
    equipment for the College of Nursing......................   900,000
Weber State University, Ogden, UT for expansion of nursing 
    programs, including purchase of equipment.................   750,000
WellSpan Health, York, PA for purchase of equipment...........   100,000
Wesley College, Dover, DE, for renovation and equipping of the 
    nursing school............................................   200,000
West Jefferson Medical Center, Marrero, LA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
West Liberty State College, West Liberty, WV for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................    50,000
West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission, Charleston, 
    WV, for facilities and equipment relating to healthcare 
    training.................................................. 4,000,000
West Virginia University Health Sciences, Morgantown, WV, for 
    facilities and equipment.................................. 1,000,000
West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, for construction of 
    a Multiple Sclerosis Center............................... 1,500,000
WestCare Health Systems, Sylva, NC for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, NY, for equipment.......   150,000
Wheeling Hospital, Inc., Wheeling, WV for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
White Memorial Medical Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, CA 
    for facilities and equipment..............................   500,000
White Plains Hospital Center, White Plains, NY for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   250,000
Wichita County Health Center, Leoti, KS, for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Wills Eye Health System, Philadelphia, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Wilmington College, Wilmington, OH for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   200,000
Windemere Rehabilitation Facility, Oak Bluffs, MA, for 
    facilities and equipment..................................   250,000
Woman's Hospital, Baton Rouge, LA, for facilities and 
    equipment to expand the neonatal intensive care unit......   100,000
Wood River Health Services, Hope Valley, RI, for facilities 
    and equipment.............................................   200,000
World Impact Good Samaritan Clinic, Wichita, KS for facilities 
    and equipment............................................. 1,000,000
Xavier University of New Orleans, LA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital, Yakima, WA, for facilities 
    and equipment to expand the pediatric center..............   100,000
York College of Pennsylvania, York, PA for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   400,000
Youth Dynamics, Inc., Billings, MT for facilities and 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Yukon-Kuskokwim Heath Corporation, Bethel, AK, for facilities 
    and equipment............................................. 1,000,000
Zufall Health Center, Dover, NJ for facilities and equipment..   225,000
      The conference agreement includes bill language not 
proposed in either the House or the Senate bill authorizing a 
three-year grant period for the Patient Navigator program.
      The conferees intend that the Traumatic Brain Injury 
Protection and Advocacy Services component of the Traumatic 
Brain Injury program receive the same proportion of funding it 
received in fiscal year 2009 as proposed by the House. The 
Senate proposed similar language.
      Within the funding provided for the Autism and Other 
Related Developmental Disorders program, the conference 
agreement includes an increase of not less than $2,200,000 to 
expand the Leadership Education in Neurodevelopmental and 
Related Disabilities (LEND) program as proposed by the House. 
The Senate did not specify a funding level for the LEND 
program. In addition, the conference agreement includes an 
increase of not less than $2,200,000 for research on evidence-
based practices for interventions for individuals with autism 
and other developmental disabilities instead of $2,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not specify a funding 
level for this research activity.
      The conferees understand that the Organ Procurement and 
Transplantation Network (OPTN) is planning a forum to consider 
further changes in policy regarding the broader allocation of 
donor livers in addition to the June 2009 Status 1 recipients 
OPTN decision. However, HRSA has informed the conferees that a 
further policy proposal will not be ready for the OPTN Board to 
review before 2011 or 2012. At least six months before any 
further change is implemented, the conferees direct OPTN to 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report analyzing and 
describing the potential impact of any changes to broaden the 
geographic allocation of livers on the following:
      (1) Access to transplantation for all patients who are 
listed at both smaller volume transplant centers and who are 
listed at centers outside major urban areas;
      (2) Mortality of all patients on a waiting list at either 
smaller volume transplant centers or transplant centers located 
outside major urban areas;
      (3) Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score of all 
patients at time of transplant;
      (4) Access to transplant and mortality rates for all 
patients whose primary insurance is Medicare or Medicaid and 
who are on waiting lists;
      (5) Organ wastage rates;
      (6) One-year and three-year graft and patient survival, 
and total years prolonged by transplantation;
      (7) Ischemia time and function of the donor liver;
      (8) Transportation and other costs associated with 
broadening the sharing of donor livers; and
      (9) Organ donation rates and public attitudes on organ 
donation (such as willingness to donate) in aggregate and in 
localities that are net exporters of organs.
      The report shall also describe in detail all comments 
received up to one year prior to and/or in conjunction with the 
OPTN 2010 public forum on broader allocation of livers, as well 
as any comments received from a planned subsequent public 
comment period, and shall indicate what steps will be taken to 
address such public comments.
      No changes to current OPTN policy on broader allocation 
of livers shall be permitted (a) prior to the submission of 
this report, and (b) absent formal notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate. Further, the conferees direct that any policy 
change on broader allocation of livers be tested first in 
demonstrations, similar to the demonstration recently conducted 
in Iowa and North and South Dakota, before nationwide 
implementation, and be made in an incremental manner, 
reflecting the accumulation and analysis of data on the impact 
of policy changes.
      The conferees have included $1,000,000 within the organ 
transplantation program to support the costs of developing the 
report described above.
      The conference agreement includes sufficient resources to 
allocate funding to all certified poison control centers, or 
centers granted a waiver by the Secretary, based on service 
population. The Senate proposed similar language. The House did 
not propose any language.

                  COVERED COUNTERMEASURE PROCESS FUND

      The conference agreement does not include funding for the 
Covered Countermeasure Process Fund as proposed by the House. 
The Senate proposed $5,000,000 for the Fund. The Fund received 
support from fiscal year 2009 supplemental appropriations 
provided in Public Law 111-32.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                DISEASE CONTROL, RESEARCH, AND TRAINING

      The conference agreement includes $6,390,387,000 in 
discretionary appropriations for Disease Control, Research, and 
Training at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) instead of $6,314,032,000 as proposed by the House and 
$6,733,377,000 as proposed by the Senate. In addition, 
$352,357,000 is made available under section 241 of the Public 
Health Service (PHS) Act instead of $368,863,000 as proposed by 
the House and $40,075,000 as proposed by the Senate.
Infectious Diseases
            Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
      Within the program level total for Immunization and 
Respiratory Diseases, the conference agreement includes the 
following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Section 317 Immunization Program.............................     $496,847,000     $496,847,000     $496,847,000
Program Operations...........................................       61,621,000       63,621,000       62,621,000
Influenza....................................................      158,992,000      158,992,000      158,992,000
    Pandemic Influenza.......................................      156,344,000      156,344,000      156,344,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the total for Program Operations, the conference 
agreement includes a $1,000,000 increase for vaccine safety 
research instead of a $2,000,000 increase as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose similar language.
            HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention
      Within the total for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and 
TB prevention, the conference agreement includes the following 
amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Domestic HIV/AIDS Prevention and Research....................     $744,914,000     $711,045,000     $727,980,000
    HIV Prevention by Health Departments.....................              N/A              N/A      328,887,000
    HIV Surveillance.........................................              N/A              N/A      109,455,000
    National, Regional, Local, Community, and Other                        N/A              N/A      134,793,000
     Organizations...........................................
    Enhanced HIV Testing.....................................              N/A              N/A       65,273,000
    Improving Program Effectiveness..........................              N/A              N/A       89,572,000
Viral Hepatitis..............................................       20,150,000       18,367,000       19,259,000
Sexually Transmitted Diseases................................      152,750,000              N/A      153,875,000
Tuberculosis.................................................      144,268,000      144,268,000      144,268,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      In order to support a multi-faceted approach to HIV 
research and prevention practices, the conferees have 
established five new sub-budget lines that are structured 
around the principles of transparency, accountability, and 
comprehensiveness. The conferees expect that the fiscal year 
2011 budget justification will follow this format, providing 
detailed explanations of funded activities, and how any 
proposed increases or reductions will be applied across each 
line. The conferees further insist that any future movement of 
funds between these lines must go through the formal 
reprogramming review process.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
regarding the Early Diagnosis Grants program. The House 
proposed bill language specifically eliminating funding for the 
program while the Senate proposed to limit funding for the 
program to $15,000,000. The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment 
Extension Act of 2009 did not reauthorize this activity; 
therefore, the conferees expect CDC not to carve out any 
funding for this activity in fiscal year 2010.
      Within the total for Domestic HIV/AIDS Prevention and 
Research programs, the conference agreement provides funding at 
no less than the fiscal year 2009 level to support activities 
that are targeted to address the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
its disparate impact on communities of color, including African 
Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Native 
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. The House proposed 
$95,700,000 for these activities. The Senate did not propose 
similar language.
      The conferees direct CDC to include in the fiscal year 
2011 congressional budget justification a description of 
efforts and timelines to update hepatitis C screening 
guidelines, including information on pilot studies that are 
ongoing and planned for the future using a one-time, age-based 
screen to target the age demographic with the highest 
prevalence. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed similar 
language.
      The conferees intend that the increase provided for STD 
prevention be used to expand Infertility Prevention Services 
and Infrastructure Projects in all regions as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose similar language.
            Zoonotic, Vector-borne, and Enteric Diseases
      Within the total for Zoonotic, Vector-borne, and Enteric 
Diseases, the conference agreement includes the following 
amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vector-borne Diseases, including West Nile Virus.............      $26,717,000              N/A      $26,717,000
Lyme Disease.................................................        8,938,000              N/A        8,938,000
Food Safety..................................................       26,942,000              N/A       26,942,000
Prion Disease................................................        5,474,000              N/A        5,474,000
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.....................................        4,825,000              N/A        4,825,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Preparedness, Detection, and Control of Infectious Diseases
      Within the total for Preparedness, Detection, and Control 
of Infectious Diseases, the conference agreement includes 
$15,150,000 for the National Healthcare Safety Network as 
proposed by the House. The Senate did not include similar 
language. Funding shall be used consistent with the language in 
House Report 111-220.
      Also within the total for Preparedness, Detection, and 
Control of Infectious Diseases, the conference agreement 
includes $136,281,000 for the Emerging Infectious Diseases 
program instead of $141,383,000 as proposed by the House. The 
Senate did not include similar language.
      The conferees are aware of various studies in Japan, the 
United Kingdom and the U.S. Department of Defense into 
substances that reduce the bio-load of surfaces in hospital 
rooms. In particular, some copper alloys in place of stainless 
steel or plastics may reduce the spread of microbial infectious 
organisms. The conferees request that CDC review the literature 
available and report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate on the status of this 
research and its potential for reducing healthcare-associated 
infections. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed similar 
language.
Health Promotion
            Chronic Disease Prevention, Health Promotion, and Genomics
      Within the total for Chronic Disease Prevention, Health 
Promotion, and Genomics, the conference agreement includes the 
following amounts:


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Heart Disease and Stroke...............................        $54,221,000        $56,221,000        $56,221,000
    Delta Health Intervention..........................          3,007,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
Diabetes...............................................         65,998,000         65,998,000         65,998,000
Cancer Prevention and Control..........................        349,454,000        380,234,000        370,346,000
    Breast and Cervical Cancer.........................        209,699,000        220,000,000        214,850,000
        WISEWOMAN......................................         20,573,000         21,000,000         20,787,000
    Breast Cancer Awareness for Young Women............          5,000,000                  0          5,000,000
    Cancer Registries..................................         46,472,000         50,000,000         51,236,000
    Colorectal Cancer..................................         39,063,000         50,000,000         44,532,000
    Comprehensive Cancer...............................         16,386,000         25,000,000         20,693,000
    Johanna's Law......................................          6,807,000          6,807,000          6,807,000
    Ovarian Cancer.....................................          5,414,000          6,000,000          5,707,000
    Prostate Cancer....................................         13,275,000         14,000,000         13,638,000
    Skin Cancer........................................          1,880,000          2,500,000          2,190,000
    Geraldine Ferraro Cancer Education Program.........          4,677,000          4,677,000          4,677,000
    Cancer Survivorship Resource Center................            781,000          1,250,000          1,016,000
Arthritis and Other Chronic Diseases...................         26,803,000         26,294,000         27,299,000
    Arthritis..........................................         13,318,000         13,318,000         13,318,000
    Psoriasis..........................................          1,500,000                  0          1,500,000
    Epilepsy...........................................          7,976,000          7,976,000          7,976,000
    National Lupus Patient Registry....................          4,009,000          5,000,000          4,505,000
Tobacco................................................        106,408,000        115,000,000        110,704,000
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity..............         44,402,000         44,991,000         44,991,000
Health Promotion.......................................         27,803,000         30,408,000         29,856,000
    Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System.........          7,316,000          7,316,000          7,316,000
    Community Health Promotion.........................          6,468,000          6,468,000          6,468,000
        Sleep Disorders................................            861,000            861,000            861,000
    Mind-Body Institute................................                  0          1,500,000          1,500,000
    Glaucoma...........................................          3,519,000          3,519,000          3,519,000
    Visual Screening Education.........................          3,229,000          3,229,000          3,229,000
    Alzheimer's Disease................................          1,692,000          2,000,000          1,846,000
    Inflammatory Bowel Disease.........................            686,000            686,000            686,000
    Interstitial Cystitis..............................            660,000            660,000            660,000
    Excessive Alcohol Use..............................          2,000,000          3,000,000          2,500,000
    Chronic Kidney Disease.............................          2,233,000          2,030,000          2,132,000
School Health..........................................         62,780,000         57,645,000         57,645,000
    Healthy Passages Study.............................          3,493,000          3,493,000          3,493,000
    Food Allergies.....................................            497,000            497,000            497,000
Safe Motherhood/Infant Health..........................         49,891,000         44,782,000         44,782,000
    Preterm Birth......................................          2,005,000          2,005,000          2,005,000
    Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.......................            207,000            207,000            207,000
Oral Health............................................         15,074,000         15,000,000         15,000,000
Prevention Research Centers............................         33,203,000         35,000,000         33,675,000
Healthy Communities....................................         22,823,000         22,823,000         22,823,000
Racial & Ethnic Approaches to Community Health.........         39,644,000         39,644,000         39,644,000
Genomics...............................................         12,308,000         12,308,000         12,308,000
    Primary Immune Deficiency Syndrome.................          3,107,000          3,107,000          3,107,000
    Public Health Genomics.............................          9,201,000          9,201,000          9,201,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the total provided for cancer prevention and 
control, the conference agreement includes $5,000,000 for 
breast cancer awareness for young women, as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not include similar language. Funding 
shall be used consistent with the language in House Report 111-
220.
      The conference agreement includes $3,000,000 to enhance 
and expand CDC's existing cancer registry in order to carry out 
the goals of the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer 
Act with respect to pediatric cancer. The Senate provided 
increased funding for the pediatric cancer registry within the 
CDC Cancer Registry program, while the House provided funding 
for this activity in the Office of the Secretary. The conferees 
commend CDC for convening a panel of experts in the field of 
pediatric cancer research and direct the CDC to submit to the 
Appropriations Committees no later than February 1, 2010 a 
detailed plan for improving the types of data, the speed of 
reporting, and the access of data to researchers.
      As proposed by the House, the conference agreement 
includes sufficient funding within Safe Motherhood/Infant 
Health for the development of a national public health plan for 
the prevention, detection, and management of infertility. The 
Senate did not include similar language. The conferees request 
that CDC report on the development of this plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate no later than April 1, 2010.
      Within the total provided for Nutrition, Physical 
Activity, and Obesity, the conference agreement includes 
$500,000 to continue a study by the Institute of Medicine that 
will examine and provide recommendations regarding front-of-
package nutrition symbols consistent with the language in 
Senate Report 111-66. The House did not propose similar 
language.
      The increase provided for the Office of Smoking and 
Health is intended to expand counter marketing programs as 
proposed by the Senate. In addition, similar to what was 
proposed by the Senate, the conferees direct the Office of 
Smoking and Health to transfer no less than last year's level 
to the Environmental Health Laboratory to analyze tobacco 
products and cigarette smoke. This transfer is to be provided 
in a manner that supplements and in no way replaces existing 
funding for tobacco-related activities. The House did not 
propose similar language. The conferees further request that 
CDC submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a comprehensive plan to 
substantially reduce the rates of tobacco use in the U.S. over 
the next five fiscal years. The plan should be submitted no 
later than April 1, 2010 and include recommendations for 
national and community-based activities that are necessary to 
meet the goal.
      As proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement 
includes increased funding within the total for Prevention 
Research Centers to support additional Comprehensive Centers. 
The House did not propose similar language.
      As proposed by the House, the conference agreement 
includes funding to support the collection of epidemiological 
and longitudinal data on individuals with psoriasis and 
psoriatic arthritis, including children and adolescents, to 
better understand the co-morbidities associated with psoriasis, 
examine the relationship of psoriasis to other public health 
concerns, and gain insight into the long-term impact and 
treatment of these two conditions. The Senate did not propose 
similar language.
      The conference agreement provides funding to support 
CDC's initiative for Healthy Communities. Within the total 
provided, $4,000,000 is for the continuation of the community-
based grant program focusing on poor nutrition and physical 
inactivity. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed similar 
language.
            Birth Defects, Developmental Disabilities, Disability and 
                    Health
      Within the total for Birth Defects, Developmental 
Disabilities, Disability and Health, the conference agreement 
includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities.................      $42,776,000      $42,494,000      $42,636,000
    Birth Defects............................................       21,182,000       21,500,000       21,342,000
        Craniofacial Malformation............................        1,755,000        2,000,000        1,878,000
        Fetal Death..........................................          846,000          846,000          846,000
        Alveolar Capillary Dysplasia.........................          247,000          247,000          247,000
    Fetal Alcohol Syndrome...................................       10,140,000       10,140,000       10,140,000
    Folic Acid...............................................        3,426,000        2,826,000        3,126,000
    Infant Health............................................        8,028,000        8,028,000        8,028,000
Human Development and Disability.............................       78,194,000       82,444,000       80,820,000
    Disability & Health (including Child Development)........       13,611,000       13,611,000       13,611,000
    Charcot Marie Tooth Disorders............................                0        1,000,000        1,000,000
     Limb Loss...............................................        2,906,000        2,906,000        2,906,000
     Tourette Syndrome.......................................        1,749,000        1,749,000        1,749,000
     Early Hearing Detection and Intervention................       10,888,000       10,888,000       10,888,000
     Muscular Dystrophy......................................        6,291,000        6,291,000        6,291,000
     Special Olympics Healthy Athletes.......................        5,534,000        5,534,000        5,534,000
     Paralysis Resource Center...............................        6,015,000        7,748,000        6,882,000
     Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder................        1,751,000        1,751,000        1,751,000
     Fragile X...............................................        1,905,000        1,905,000        1,905,000
     Spina Bifida............................................        5,483,000        7,000,000        6,242,000
     Autism..................................................       22,061,000       22,061,000       22,061,000
Blood Disorders..............................................       19,912,000       19,912,000       19,912,000
     Hemophilia..............................................       17,203,000       17,203,000       17,203,000
     Thallasemia.............................................        1,865,000        1,865,000        1,865,000
     Diamond Blackfan Anemia.................................          517,000          517,000          517,000
     Hemachromatosis.........................................          327,000          327,000          327,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      As proposed by the Senate, the additional funding 
provided for craniofacial malformation above the fiscal year 
2009 funding level shall be used to support the continued 
analysis of data from the quality of life surveys of children 
with oral clefts completed in 2008. The House did not propose 
similar language. The conferees expect the increased funding to 
be used consistent with the language in Senate Report 111-66.
      As proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement 
includes $1,000,000 to launch a National Charcot Marie Tooth 
(CMT) Resource Center to promote a collaborative relationship 
between CMT patients and their providers and to ensure CMT 
patients are being properly diagnosed and treated with the 
latest standards of care. The House did not propose similar 
language.
      The conferees are pleased by advances that have allowed 
children with congenital heart disease (CHD) to live longer; 
however, there is little data on adults living with this 
condition. The conferees encourage CDC to develop a population-
based adult CHD surveillance plan to determine the prevalence 
of CHD in the adult population. The conferees direct CDC to 
provide a progress report on this effort within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act.
Health Information and Service
            Public Health Informatics/Health Marketing
      Within the total for Public Health Informatics/Health 
Marketing, the conference agreement includes a program level 
total of $70,597,000 for Public Health Informatics as proposed 
by the House and $79,374,000 for Health Marketing instead of 
$82,504,000 as proposed by the House. The Senate did not 
include similar language.
      The conferees intend that within the total for Health 
Marketing, no less than the level provided in fiscal year 2009, 
or $1,831,000, shall be provided to support the activities of 
the Task Force on Community Preventive Services. Neither the 
House nor the Senate proposed similar language.
Environmental Health and Injury Prevention
            Environmental Health
      Within the total for Environmental Health, the conference 
agreement includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Environmental Health Laboratory..............................      $43,729,000      $42,962,000      $43,346,000
     Newborn Screening Quality Assurance Program.............        6,915,000        6,915,000        6,915,000
     Newborn Screening for Severe Combined Immunodeficiency            988,000          988,000          988,000
     Diseases................................................
Environmental Health Activities..............................       81,565,000       81,480,000       78,043,000
     Safe Water..............................................        7,237,000        7,237,000        7,237,000
     Volcanic Emissions......................................                0          500,000          200,000
     Environmental and Health Outcome Tracking Network.......       33,124,000       31,309,000       33,124,000
     Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Registry............        5,027,000        7,000,000        6,014,000
     Climate Change..........................................       15,000,000        7,540,000        7,540,000
     Polycythemia Vera (PV) Cluster..........................                0        5,027,000        2,513,000
     International Emergency and Refugee Health..............              N/A        6,500,000        6,262,000
Asthma.......................................................       30,924,000       30,924,000       30,924,000
Healthy Homes (formerly Childhood Lead Poisoning)............       34,805,000       34,805,000       34,805,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      As proposed by the House, increased resources provided 
for the Environmental and Health Outcome Tracking Network above 
the fiscal year 2009 funding level will enable at least one 
additional State to participate in the network. The Senate did 
not propose similar language.
      As proposed by the Senate, increased resources provided 
for Volcanic Emissions above the fiscal year 2009 funding level 
are for the establishment of a research center that embraces a 
multidisciplinary approach in studying the short- and long-term 
health effects of volcanic emissions. The House did not propose 
similar language.
            Injury Prevention and Control
      Within the total for Injury Prevention and Control, the 
conference agreement includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intentional Injury.....................................       $102,648,000                N/A       $102,648,000
     Domestic Violence and Sexual Violence.............         31,900,000                N/A         31,900,000
         Child Maltreatment............................          7,104,000                N/A          7,104,000
     Youth Violence Prevention.........................         20,076,000                N/A         20,076,000
     Domestic Violence Community Projects..............          5,525,000                N/A          5,525,000
     Rape Prevention...................................         42,623,000                N/A         42,623,000
     All Other Intentional Injury......................          2,524,000                N/A          2,524,000
Unintentional Injury...................................         31,704,000                N/A         31,704,000
     Traumatic Brain Injury............................          6,152,000                N/A          6,152,000
     All Other Unintentional Injury....................         25,552,000                N/A         25,552,000
         Elderly Falls.................................          2,000,000                N/A          2,000,000
Injury Control Research Centers........................         10,719,000                N/A         10,719,000
National Violent Death Reporting System................          3,544,000                N/A          3,544,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
      Within the program level total for the National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), the conference 
agreement includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Education and Research Centers...............................      $23,740,000      $25,000,000      $24,370,000
Personal Protective Technology...............................       17,218,000       17,218,000       17,218,000
     Pan Flu Preparedness for Healthcare Workers.............        3,031,000        3,031,000        3,031,000
Healthier Workforce Centers..................................        4,072,000        6,000,000        5,036,000
National Occupational Research Agenda........................      117,406,000      117,406,000      117,406,000
World Trade Center...........................................       70,723,000       70,723,000       70,723,000
Mining Research..............................................       51,469,000       50,516,000       53,705,000
Other Occupational Safety and Health Research................       84,713,000       84,713,000       84,713,000
     Miners Choice...........................................          648,000          648,000          648,000
 Nat'l Mesothelioma Registry & Tissue Bank...................        1,024,000        1,024,000        1,024,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The total provided for NIOSH includes sufficient funding 
to maintain staffing levels at the Morgantown facility and to 
increase research funding at that facility as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose similar language.
      Within the total for Mining Research, the conference 
agreement includes $3,189,000 for a Mine Technology and Safety 
Test Bed, consistent with the language in House Report 111-220. 
The Senate did not include similar language.
      The 2009 H1N1 virus pandemic has highlighted the need to 
protect health care workers who have been on the front lines 
providing care to those who have become infected and sick. The 
current pandemic also has revealed that there are major gaps in 
our scientific knowledge about the modes of transmission of 
influenza and the most effective methods to prevent 
transmission and protect health care workers, including the 
type of respiratory protection that should be utilized to 
protect health care workers from exposure. The conference 
agreement includes increased funding over the fiscal year 2009 
level for the National Occupational Research Agenda. The 
conferees urge NIOSH to direct some of this increase to 
intramural and extramural research to implement the 
recommendations of the 2008 and 2009 Institute of Medicine 
reports, including research to determine relative contribution 
of various routes of influenza transmission; and for each mode 
of transmission, efficacious means to prevent and control 
transmission, and to limit exposure to health care workers. The 
House included similar language.
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation
      Within the total for the mandatory Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation program, the conference 
agreement includes bill language designating $4,500,000 for use 
by, or in support of, the Advisory Board on Radiation and 
Worker Health as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
propose similar language.
Global Health
      Within the funds provided for Global Health, the 
conference agreement includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Global AIDS Program..........................................     $118,979,000     $118,979,000     $118,979,000
Global Immunization Program..................................      153,475,000      153,876,000      153,676,000
    Polio Eradication........................................      101,599,000      102,000,000      101,800,000
    Other Global/Measles.....................................       51,876,000       51,876,000       51,876,000
Global Disease Detection.....................................       37,756,000       37,000,000       37,756,000
Global Malaria Program.......................................        9,405,000        9,405,000        9,405,000
Other Global Health..........................................        3,519,000       13,519,000        8,519,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees are supportive of CDC's long-term goal of 
establishing three global disease detection regional centers 
per World Health Organization region, and also recognize a 
critical need to bring the existing global disease detection 
regional centers to full capacity. Additional funding above the 
fiscal year 2009 funding level for global disease detection 
shall be used to support no less than one new global disease 
detection regional center and increase capacity in one or more 
existing centers. Both the House and Senate proposed similar 
language.
Terrorism Preparedness and Response
      Within the funds provided for Terrorism Preparedness and 
Response, the conference agreement includes the following 
amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Public Health Emergency Prep. Cooperative Agreements...       $714,949,000       $714,949,000       $714,949,000
Centers for Public Health Preparedness.................         30,013,000         30,013,000         30,013,000
Advanced Practice Centers..............................          5,263,000          5,263,000          5,263,000
All Other State and Local Capacity.....................         10,875,000         10,875,000         10,875,000
Upgrading CDC Capacity.................................        120,795,000        120,744,000        120,744,000
Anthrax................................................                  0          4,100,000          2,600,000
BioSense...............................................         34,404,000         34,404,000         34,404,000
Quarantine.............................................         26,518,000         26,518,000         26,518,000
Real-time Lab Reporting................................          8,243,000          8,243,000          8,243,000
Strategic National Stockpile...........................        595,749,000        595,749,000        595,749,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement includes $2,600,000 for the 
anthrax dose reduction study instead of $2,700,000 as proposed 
by the Senate. As proposed by the House, funding is not 
provided for the vaccine safety military medical records data 
mining activities. The Senate proposed $1,400,000 for this 
activity.
Public Health Improvement and Leadership
      Within the total for Public Health Improvement and 
Leadership, the conference agreement includes the following 
amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Leadership and Management..............................       $149,986,000       $149,986,000       $149,986,000
Director's Discretionary Fund..........................                  0          5,000,000          3,000,000
Public Health Workforce Development....................         35,652,000         40,000,000         37,826,000
    Applied Epidemiology Fellowship Training...........            991,000            991,000            991,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees encourage CDC to continue the Institutional 
Research Training Grant program. Neither the House nor the 
Senate proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement includes $20,620,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Access Community Health Network, Chicago, IL for a               200,000
 program to reduce cancer disparities through
 comprehensive early detection.......................
AIDS Community Resources, Inc, Syracuse, NY, for HIV/            300,000
 AIDS education and prevention.......................
Alameda County Department of Public Health, Office of            300,000
 AIDS, Oakland, CA for an HIV/AIDS prevention and
 testing initiative..................................
Alliance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics, Boston,             100,000
 MA for a comprehensive program to review antibiotic
 resistance trends, interventions, and prevention
 methods, including a public information campaign....
Allina Hospitals and Clinics, Minneapolis, MN for a              250,000
 heart disease prevention program....................
American Red Cross, San Juan, PR for testing the                 400,000
 Puerto Rico blood supply for the dengue virus.......
Betty Jean Kerr Peoples Health Center, St. Louis, MO             150,000
 for the prostate cancer screening program...........
Broward County, Ft. Lauderdale, FL for a pediatric               275,000
 mortality public awareness campaign.................
Center for International Rehabilitation, Washington,             150,000
 DC, for the disability rights monitor program.......
Children's Health Fund, New York, NY for health                  100,000
 assessments, outreach, and education services for
 children and their families.........................
City of Laredo, TX for a community health assessment.            200,000
Community Health Centers in Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, for            200,000
 the Childhood Rural Asthma Project..................
County of Essex, Newark, NJ, for diabetes prevention             125,000
 and management program for severely mentally ill
 individuals.........................................
County of Marin, San Rafael, CA for research and                 200,000
 analysis related to breast cancer incidence and
 mortality in the county and breast cancer screening.
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC for a                   400,000
 program to reduce health disparities through chronic
 disease management..................................
Eastern Maine Health Systems, Brewer, ME, for                    640,000
 emergency preparedness planning and equipment.......
El Puente, Inc., Brooklyn, NY for a youth and family             500,000
 wellness program....................................
Family Hospice and Palliative Care, Pittsburgh, PA               100,000
 for the Center for Compassionate Care Education
 Outreach program....................................
Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus                      50,000
 Foundation, Lake Success, NY for glaucoma screenings
 in Northern Virginia................................
Ft. Valley State University, Ft. Valley, GA for a                100,000
 food and nutrition education program (EFNEP) aimed
 at curbing obesity, particularly among young
 minorities..........................................
Haitian American Association Against Cancer, Inc.,               300,000
 Miami, FL for cancer education, outreach, screening,
 and related programs................................
Healthy People Northeast Pennsylvania Initiative,                100,000
 Clarks Summit, PA, for obesity prevention and
 education programs..................................
Huntington Breast Cancer Action Coalition,                       100,000
 Huntington, NY for providing services and programs
 to underserved populations on how to reduce the
 risks of cancer.....................................
Inland Northwest Health Services, Spokane, WA for a              350,000
 public health surveillance initiative...............
International Rett Syndrome Foundation, Cincinnati,              180,000
 OH for education and awareness programs regarding
 Rett Syndrome.......................................
Iowa Chronic Care Consortium/Des Moines University,              200,000
 Des Moines, IA for a preventive health initiative...
Kalihi-Palama Health Center, Honolulu, HI, for                   150,000
 outreach, screening and education related to renal
 disease.............................................
Kaweah Delta Hospital Foundation, Visalia, CA, for a             100,000
 comprehensive asthma management program.............
La Familia Medical Center, Santa Fe, NM, for diabetes            100,000
 education and outreach..............................
Latino Health Access, Santa Ana, CA for a youth                  150,000
 obesity prevention program..........................
Lupus LA, Los Angeles, CA for increasing public                  250,000
 awareness of lupus..................................
Mario Lemieux Foundation, Bridgeville, PA for the                100,000
 Hodgkin's Disease Patient and Public Education
 Outreach Initiative.................................
Mary Bird Perkins Cancer Center, Baton Rouge, LA, to             600,000
 expand early detection cancer screening.............
Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, TN              400,000
 for a program to improve the physical fitness of
 children and adolescents in Middle Tennessee........
Morgan State University, Baltimore, MD for a program             200,000
 to understand the social determinants and the impact
 of health disparities on the health of urban and
 underserved populations.............................
National Marfan Foundation, Port Washington, NY for              250,000
 an awareness and education campaign for Marfan
 Syndrome............................................
Nevada Cancer Institute, Las Vegas, NV for cancer                600,000
 education and outreach services.....................
New York Junior Tennis League, Woodside, NY for a                250,000
 childhood obesity program for high-risk youth from
 low-income families.................................
Northeast Regional Cancer Institute, Scranton, PA,               100,000
 for a regional cancer registry......................
Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL, for the             200,000
 development of a comprehensive diabetic program.....
Ohio University, Athens, OH, for diabetes outreach               200,000
 and education in rural areas........................
Padres Contra El Cancer, Los Angeles, CA for                     250,000
 educational resources and outreach programs to serve
 families with children with cancer..................
PE4life Foundation, Kansas City, MO, for expansion               300,000
 and assessment of PE4life programs across Iowa......
Pednet Coalition, Inc, Columbia, MO, for obesity                 500,000
 prevention programs.................................
Penn State University, Milton S Hershey Medical                  100,000
 Center, Hershey, PA, for a stroke prevention program
Polycystic Kidney Disease Foundation, Kansas City, MO            100,000
 for developing education and awareness programs
 about chronic kidney disease........................
Prevent Blindness Florida, Tampa, FL for the See the             200,000
 Difference Vision Screening Program.................
Puerto Rican Cultural Center, Chicago, IL for an HIV/            100,000
 AIDS outreach and education program.................
Pulmonary Hypertension Association, Silver Spring, MD            250,000
 for a pulmonary hypertension prevention and
 awareness initiative................................
San Antonio Metropolitan Health District, San                    500,000
 Antonio, TX for a program to assess the health
 behaviors of the Kelly community and address health
 issues such as lead poisoning, asthma, and indoor
 pollutants..........................................
Schneider Children's Hospital, New Hyde Park, NY for             300,000
 comprehensive Diamond Blackfan Anemia awareness and
 surveillance........................................
Shelby County Community Services, Memphis, TN for an             200,000
 infant mortality prevention and education program...
Silent Spring Institute, Newton, MA for studies of               350,000
 the impact of environmental pollutants on breast
 cancer and women's health...........................
South Carolina HIV/AIDS Council, Columbia, SC for an             200,000
 HIV/AIDS prevention program.........................
South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD, for                150,000
 research on health promotion........................
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Foundation, New York, NY, for            500,000
 outreach, patient education and registries..........
State of Maryland Department of Health and Mental              1,200,000
 Hygiene, Baltimore, MD, for the Unified Oral Health
 Education Message Campaign..........................
Texas AgriLife Extension Service, College Station, TX            300,000
 for a youth obesity prevention initiative...........
Texas Tech University Health Science Center, Lubbock,            200,000
 TX for the West Texas Center for Influenza Research,
 Education and Treatment.............................
Thundermist Health Center, Woonsocket, RI for the                200,000
 active teen challenge project to reduce childhood
 obesity.............................................
UMOS, Inc., Milwaukee, WI for a teen pregnancy and               100,000
 sexually transmitted infections prevention program..
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, to             450,000
 develop an environmental health informatics database
University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, NV, to            800,000
 establish a diabetes management program.............
University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM for a                  350,000
 prevention program aimed at reducing diabetes-
 related heart and blood vessel diseases in New
 Mexico..............................................
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, for a             300,000
 racial disparities and cardiovascular disease
 initiative..........................................
University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,                500,000
 Houston, TX for a comprehensive cancer control
 program to address the needs of minority and
 medically underserved populations...................
University of Texas-Pan American, Edinburg, TX for               250,000
 research and education activities at the South Texas
 Border Health Disparities Center....................
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee School of Public               900,000
 Health, Milwaukee, WI, to support and expand public
 health education and outreach programs..............
Valentine Boys and Girls Club of Chicago, Chicago, IL            150,000
 for a health and physical education program to
 prevent obesity and promote healthy development.....
Visiting Nurses Association, Council Bluffs, IA for a            350,000
 telehealth initiative, including purchase of
 equipment...........................................
Waterloo Fire Rescue, Waterloo, IA, for FirePALS, a              150,000
 school-based injury prevention program..............
Watts Healthcare Corporation, Los Angeles, CA for a              250,000
 project to improve breastfeeding rates..............
Winston-Salem State University, Winston-Salem, NC,               100,000
 for blood pressure and obesity screening programs,
 including training of healthcare professionals......
Yale New Haven Health Center, New Haven, CT, for the             150,000
 Connecticut Center for Public Health Preparedness...
Youth & Family Services, Inc, Rapid City, SD, for a              300,000
 health promotion program for young men..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Buildings and Facilities
      Within the amount provided for Buildings and Facilities, 
the conference agreement includes $30,000,000 for nationwide 
repairs and improvements of existing facilities as proposed by 
both the House and Senate and $39,150,000 for Buildings 107 and 
108 on the Chamblee Campus in Atlanta, Georgia instead of 
$78,300,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
propose funding for new construction.
      The conference agreement also includes bill language 
proposed by the Senate that CDC shall award a single contract 
or related contracts for the development and construction of 
facilities in the Master Plan that collectively include the 
full scope of the project and that the solicitation and 
contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds''. 
The House did not propose similar language.
Business Services and Support
      The funds for Business Services and Support are intended 
for CDC to carry out its business functions, including, but not 
limited to, administrative services, financial management, 
security and emergency preparedness, and procurement and 
grants. Neither these funds nor any other funds provided to CDC 
are to be enhanced through the mechanism of program assessments 
or tapping at any level.

                     National Institutes of Health

      The conference agreement includes $31,008,788,000 for the 
26 accounts that comprise the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) total appropriation instead of $31,258,788,000 as 
proposed by the House and $30,758,788,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. In addition, the conference agreement continues the 
allocation to NIH of $8,200,000 in program evaluation set-aside 
funding, which is the same as the House and Senate bills. 
Appropriation levels for individual institutes and centers are 
described in the table at the end of this statement of 
managers. Guidance for specific institutes and centers is 
provided below.

                       NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE

      The National Cancer Institute (NCI) reports that it is 
meeting the funding level identified for pediatric cancer 
research in the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer 
Act of 2008 within its base budget. The conferees commend NCI 
for its attention to this issue.

         NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $304,000,000 by 
transfer from the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund 
(BioShield) instead of a transfer of $500,000,000 as proposed 
by the House. The Senate bill did not propose a transfer of 
BioShield funding.

                         OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

      The conference agreement includes bill language providing 
up to $193,880,000 for continuation of the National Children's 
Study. The House bill provided up to $194,400,000 for 
continuation of the study. The Senate bill did not identify a 
particular funding level.
      The conference agreement includes funding for a one 
percent increase in research training stipends instead of a two 
percent increase as proposed by the House. The Senate did not 
identify a specific training stipend increase.
      Unless otherwise noted in this statement, the conferees 
expect NIH to follow the budget policy assumptions of the 
President's fiscal year 2010 budget and the accompanying 
explanatory materials.
      The conferees expect NIH to notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
each time the Director uses the statutory one percent transfer 
authority as proposed in House Report 111-220. The Senate did 
not include similar language.
      The conference agreement includes $5,000,000 for a 
bioethics initiative administered through the institutes and 
centers as proposed by the House. The Senate did not identify a 
funding level for the initiative.
      The conference agreement provides that, as proposed in 
Senate Report 111-66, with regard to section 516 of the bill, 
``program, project, or activity'' applies to all sub-mechanisms 
and stand-alone activities in institute and center mechanism 
tables, except for the research project grants mechanism, in 
which case the restriction applies at the subtotal level. The 
House did not include comparable language. The conferees 
understand that NIH is upgrading its financial business system 
and is implementing hard funds controls. The conferees expect 
NIH to ensure that these funds controls will be established at 
the levels identified above to proactively enforce the 
reprogramming thresholds. The conferees request a detailed 
explanation and timeline in the 2011 congressional budget 
justification describing how the NIH enterprise system will 
proactively ensure full compliance with the reprogramming 
thresholds.
      The conferees expect that NIH will work to strengthen its 
policy of supporting AIDS and non-AIDS research funding 
allocations at the current relative rate when allocating the 
second year of Recovery Act funding. House Report 111-220 had 
similar language. The Senate did not include comparable 
language.

                        BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

      The conference agreement includes sufficient funding to 
support the construction of the Northwest Child Care Center on 
the Bethesda campus as proposed in House Report 111-220. The 
Senate did not include comparable language.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

               SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES

      The conference agreement includes $3,431,624,000 for 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services instead of 
$3,419,438,000 as proposed by the House and $3,429,782,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. In addition, the conference agreement 
makes available $131,585,000 under section 241 of the Public 
Health Service (PHS) Act, which is the same as both the House 
and Senate.
      Within the total provided for Programs of Regional and 
National Significance across the Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), the conference 
agreement includes $4,897,000 for the Minority Fellowship 
Program instead of $5,093,000 as proposed by the House and 
$4,701,000 as proposed by the Senate. The distribution of these 
funds between the Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS), the 
Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT), and the Center for 
Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP) is detailed later in this 
statement.
Center for Mental Health Services
            Programs of Regional and National Significance
      Within the total provided for CMHS Programs of Regional 
and National Significance, the conference agreement includes 
the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Capacity:
    Co-Occurring State Incentive Grant.................         $3,611,000         $3,173,000         $2,168,000
    Seclusion and Restraint............................          2,449,000          2,449,000          2,449,000
    Youth Violence Prevention..........................         95,042,000         94,502,000         94,502,000
        Safe Schools/Healthy Students..................         84,860,000         84,320,000         84,320,000
            College Emergency Preparedness.............          3,000,000          2,237,000          2,237,000
        School Violence................................         10,182,000         10,182,000         10,182,000
    National Traumatic Stress Network..................         40,000,000         40,000,000         40,800,000
    Children and Family Programs.......................          9,194,000          9,194,000          9,194,000
    Mental Health Transformation Activities............          5,912,000          5,912,000          5,912,000
    Consumer and Family Network Grants.................          6,236,000          6,236,000          6,236,000
    MH Transformation State Incentive Grants...........         26,012,000         26,012,000         26,012,000
    Project LAUNCH.....................................         20,000,000         25,000,000         25,000,000
    Primary and Behavioral Health Care Integration.....         14,000,000          9,000,000         14,000,000
    Community Resilience and Recovery Initiative.......          5,000,000                  0          5,000,000
    Suicide Lifeline...................................          6,000,000          5,522,000          5,522,000
    Garrett Lee Smith--Youth Suicide State Grants......         29,738,000         29,738,000         29,738,000
    Garrett Lee Smith--Youth Suicide Campus Grants.....          4,975,000          4,975,000          4,975,000
    American Indian/Native Suicide Prevention..........          2,944,000          2,944,000          2,944,000
    Homelessness Prevention Programs...................         32,250,000         32,250,000         32,250,000
    Older Adult Programs...............................          4,814,000          4,814,000          4,814,000
    Minority AIDS......................................          9,283,000          9,283,000          9,283,000
    Jail Diversion.....................................          6,684,000          6,684,000          6,684,000
  Science to Service:
    Garrett Lee Smith--Suicide Resource Center.........          4,957,000          4,957,000          4,957,000
    Mental Health Systems Transformation Activities....          9,949,000          9,349,000          9,349,000
    Nat'l Registry of Evidence-based Programs &                    544,000            544,000            544,000
     Practices.........................................
    SAMHSA Health Information Network..................          1,920,000          1,920,000          2,673,000
    Consumer/Consumer Support TA Centers...............          1,927,000          1,927,000          1,927,000
    Minority Fellowship Program........................          4,475,000          4,083,000          4,279,000
    Disaster Response..................................          1,054,000          1,054,000          1,054,000
    Homelessness.......................................          2,306,000          2,306,000          2,306,000
    HIV/AIDS Education.................................            974,000            974,000            974,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the increase provided for the National Traumatic 
Stress Network above the fiscal year 2009 funding level, the 
conference agreement includes $1,800,000 to fund additional 
adaptation centers, which help apply general principles of 
trauma services to particular populations. The conferees are 
particularly interested in ensuring that there will be an 
adaptation center focused on domestic violence and child abuse. 
Neither the House nor the Senate proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 above the 
fiscal year 2009 funding level to the National Center for Child 
Traumatic Stress for data analysis and reporting activities 
that improve evidence-based practices and raise the standard of 
trauma care. The conferees expect that any data collected using 
funds provided under this program shall be submitted to SAMHSA. 
The Senate proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement includes $5,000,000 for a new 
Community Resilience and Recovery Initiative, as proposed by 
the House. The Senate did not propose similar language. 
According to SAMHSA, economic problems create additional 
emotional stress leading to increased suicide, crime, domestic 
violence, child neglect and abuse, and alcohol and drug 
problems. This new initiative will take advantage of SAMHSA's 
experience in providing services in local communities to 
support evidence-based programs to help address the emotional 
stress and the resultant behaviors.
      Within the $14,518,000 included in the conference 
agreement, $5,975,000 shall be used for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
American Combat Veterans of War, San Diego, CA for               175,000
 mental health services for returning veterans.........
American Red Cross, Lower Bucks County Chapter,                  100,000
 Levittown, PA for mental health services and case
 management............................................
Avera McKennan Hospital & University Health Center,              300,000
 Sioux Falls, SD, for a program serving children with
 emotional and behavioral disorders....................
BayCare Health System, Clearwater, FL for a mental               200,000
 health initiative.....................................
Bellfaire JCB, Shaker Heights, OH for the Social                 200,000
 Advocates for Youth program...........................
Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Eagle Butte, SD, for youth           100,000
 suicide and substance abuse prevention programs.......
City of Detroit, MI for behavioral health services at            700,000
 the Grace Ross Health Center..........................
Foothill Family Service, Pasadena, CA for mental health          200,000
 services to children ages 0-5 and parenting education
 that supports the services provided to the children...
Gateway Healthcare, Pawtucket, RI for behavioral health          200,000
 services for returning veterans.......................
Hathaway-Sycamores Child and Family Services, Pasadena,          100,000
 CA for mental health and emotional support services
 for children of the terminally ill during the illness
 and after the death...................................
Heartland Health Outreach, Chicago, IL for a mental              200,000
 health supportive services program....................
Hispanic Counseling Center, Hempstead, NY for mental             200,000
 health services and treatment for the uninsured and
 underinsured Hispanic population on Long Island.......
Jacksonville Community Rehabilitation Center,                    200,000
 Jacksonville, FL for long-term substance abuse and
 mental health programs for those with severe mental
 health ailments.......................................
KidsPeace National Centers of New England, Ellsworth,            150,000
 ME, for the programmatic funding necessary to
 facilitate the expansion of the KidsPeace Graham Lake
 Autism Day Treatment Unit.............................
Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, Brooklyn, NY           550,000
 for inpatient and outpatient mental health treatment
 services..............................................
Oregon Partnership, Portland, OR, to provide suicide             300,000
 prevention services to soldiers and military families.
Pacific Clinics, Arcadia, CA for mental health and               500,000
 suicide prevention programs for adolescents...........
Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Rosebud, SD for suicide prevention          500,000
 and early intervention services.......................
Spectrum Programs Inc., Miami, FL for a mental health            200,000
 and substance abuse program...........................
St. Bernard Project, Chalmette, LA for mental health             100,000
 services..............................................
St. Luke's Hospital, Adult Behavioral Services, Cedar            400,000
 Rapids, IA for behavioral health services.............
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, for mental               100,000
 health services for disabled veterans.................
Volunteers of America, Wilkes-Barre, PA, for trauma              100,000
 recovery mental health services to children and
 families..............................................
Young & Healthy, Pasadena, CA for mental health care             100,000
 for children who are uninsured or underinsured........
Youth Dynamics, Inc, Billings, MT, for a training                100,000
 program to help meet the mental health needs of those
 living in rural or frontier States....................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Center for Substance Abuse Treatment
            Programs of Regional and National Significance
      Within the total provided for CSAT Programs of Regional 
and National Significance, the conference agreement includes 
the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Capacity:
    Co-Occurring State Incentive Grants................         $4,263,000         $4,263,000         $4,263,000
    Opioid Treatment Pgms./Regulatory Activities.......          8,903,000          8,903,000          8,903,000
    Screening, Brief Intervention, Referral, &                  29,106,000         29,106,000         29,106,000
     Treatment.........................................
    Targeted Capacity Expansion--General...............         28,989,000         28,989,000         28,989,000
    Pregnant and Postpartum Women......................         16,000,000         16,000,000         16,000,000
    Strengthening Treatment Access & Retention.........          1,775,000          1,775,000          1,775,000
    Recovery Community Services Program................          5,236,000          5,236,000          5,236,000
    Access to Recovery.................................         98,954,000         98,954,000         98,954,000
    Children and Families..............................         20,678,000         30,678,000         30,678,000
    Treatment Systems for Homeless.....................         42,750,000         42,750,000         42,750,000
    Minority AIDS......................................         65,988,000         65,988,000         65,988,000
    Criminal Justice Activities........................         87,635,000         67,635,000         67,635,000
        Treatment Drug Courts..........................         58,882,000         43,882,000         43,882,000
            Families Affected by Meth Abuse............          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
        Ex-Offender Re-entry...........................         23,200,000         18,200,000         18,200,000
    Services Accountability............................         20,816,000         20,816,000         20,816,000
    Prescription Drug Monitoring (NASPER)..............                  0          2,000,000          2,000,000
  Science to Service:
    Addiction Technology Transfer Centers..............          9,081,000          9,081,000          9,081,000
    Seclusion and Restraint............................             20,000             20,000                  0
    Minority Fellowship Program........................            547,000            547,000            547,000
    Special Initiatives/Outreach.......................          2,400,000          2,400,000          2,400,000
    Information Dissemination..........................          4,553,000          4,553,000          4,553,000
    Nat'l Registry of Evidence-based Programs &                    893,000            893,000            893,000
     Pratices..........................................
    SAMHSA Health Information Network..................          4,255,000          4,255,000          4,255,000
    Program Coordination and Evaluation................          5,214,000          5,214,000          5,214,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      As proposed by the Senate, the increase provided above 
the fiscal year 2009 funding level for children and families is 
for evidence-based adolescent substance abuse treatment. The 
increase shall be used for treatment approaches that have been 
shown in rigorous evaluations to be effective for adolescents, 
that are implemented with fidelity to the original model, and 
that address geographic areas with unmet needs. The House did 
not propose similar language.
      Within the $14,518,000 included in the conference 
agreement, $4,593,000 shall be used for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Safe Haven Foundation, Chicago, IL for behavioral             $300,000
 health services for individuals affected by substance
 abuse.................................................
 Chesterfield County, VA for the Dual Treatment Track            143,000
 program...............................................
 City of Farmington, NM, to provide evidence-based               150,000
 substance abuse treatment to public inebriates........
 Gavin Foundation, Inc., South Boston, MA for substance          200,000
 abuse treatment services at its Cushing House facility
 for adolescents.......................................
 Mercy Recovery Center, Westbrook, ME, for residential         1,000,000
 treatment programs....................................
 Operation UNITE, Somerset, KY for a substance abuse           1,000,000
 treatment and voucher program.........................
 Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners,                  300,000
 Clearwater, FL for a substance abuse treatment
 initiative............................................
 San Francisco Department of Public Health, San                  750,000
 Francisco, CA for mental health and substance abuse
 services for homeless veterans........................
 Tuesday's Children, Manhasset, NY for a mental health           750,000
 initiative............................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Center for Substance Abuse Prevention
            Programs of Regional and National Significance
      Within the total provided for CSAP Programs of Regional 
and National Significance, the conference agreement includes 
the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Capacity:
    Strategic Prevention Framework State Incentive            $111,777,000       $111,777,000       $111,777,000
     Grant.............................................
         Grants to States and Territories..............                N/A        100,111,000        100,111,000
         State and Community Performance Initiative....                N/A         11,666,000         11,666,000
     Mandatory Drug Testing............................          5,206,000          5,206,000          5,206,000
     Minority AIDS.....................................         41,385,000         41,385,000         41,385,000
     Pgm Coordination/Data Coordination & Consolidation          6,300,000          6,300,000          6,300,000
     Center............................................
     Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking.......          7,000,000          7,000,000          7,000,000
         Nat'l Adult-Oriented Media Public Service               1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
         Campaign......................................
        Community-based Coalition Enhancement Grants...          5,000,000          5,000,000          5,000,000
         Intergovernmental Coordinating Committee on             1,000,000          1,000,000          1,000,000
         the Prevention of Underage Drinking...........
  Science to Service:
    Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder....................          9,821,000          9,821,000          9,821,000
     Center for the Application of Prevention                    8,511,000          8,511,000          8,511,000
     Technologies......................................
     Best Practices Program Coordination...............          4,789,000          4,789,000          4,789,000
     Nat'l Registry of Evidence-based Programs &                   650,000            650,000            650,000
     Practices.........................................
     SAMHSA Health Information Network.................          2,749,000          2,749,000          2,749,000
     Minority Fellowship Program.......................             71,000             71,000             71,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the $14,518,000 included in the conference 
agreement, $3,950,000 shall be used for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Betty Ford Institute, Palm Springs, CA for a                    $250,000
 substance abuse prevention and training initiative..
Bucks County Council on Alcoholism and Drug                      100,000
 Dependence, Inc, Doylestown, PA, to expand drug and
 alcohol prevention programs.........................
Coalition for a Drug-Free Hawaii, Honolulu, HI for a             200,000
 youth alcohol abuse and suicide prevention program..
Hamakua Health Center, Honokaa, HI, for a youth anti-            200,000
 drug program........................................
Maryland Association of Youth Services Bureaus,                  100,000
 Greenbelt, MD, for prevention and diversion services
 to youth and their families.........................
Operation UNITE, Somerset, KY for a multi-school               1,000,000
 substance abuse counseling and curriculum
 development program.................................
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA,              100,000
 for evidence-based prevention programs in schools
 and communities to reduce youth substance abuse.....
Postpartum Resource Center of New York, West Islip,              100,000
 NY for perinatal mood disorder prevention and early
 detection programs, support groups, and a
 multilingual helpline...............................
Rhode Island State Nurses Association, Pawtucket, RI             100,000
 for substance abuse programs for nurses.............
St. Ann's Corner of Harm Reduction, Bronx, NY for                100,000
 mental health consultations and substance abuse
 prevention and treatment support services...........
Waimanalo Health Center, Waimanalo, HI, for a youth              200,000
 anti-drug program...................................
West Virginia Prevention Resource Center, South                1,500,000
 Charleston, WV, for drug abuse prevention...........
------------------------------------------------------------------------

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY

      The conference agreement includes a program level of 
$397,053,000 for the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 
(AHRQ) instead of $372,053,000 as proposed by both the House 
and Senate. The conference agreement makes these funds fully 
available through section 241 of the Public Health Service 
(PHS) Act.
      Within the total for Research on Health Costs, Quality 
and Outcomes, the conference agreement includes $21,000,000 for 
Patient-Centered Health Research instead of $12,500,000 as 
proposed by the House and $50,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Of the funding provided, $12,500,000 is to cover the 
continuation costs of current research grants and $8,500,000 is 
for the Developing Evidence to Inform Decisions about 
Effectiveness (DEcIDE) Network. The DEcIDE Network conducts 
accelerated practical studies about the outcomes, comparative 
clinical effectiveness, safety, and appropriateness of health 
care items and services.
      As proposed by the House, the conferees do not intend for 
the patient-centered health research funding to be used to 
mandate coverage, reimbursement, or other policies for any 
public or private payer. The funding shall be used to conduct 
or support research to evaluate and compare the clinical 
outcomes, effectiveness, risk, and benefits of two or more 
medical treatments and services that address a particular 
medical condition. Further, the conferees recognize that a 
``one-size-fits-all'' approach to patient treatment is not the 
most medically appropriate solution to treating various 
conditions. Research conducted should be consistent with 
Departmental policies relating to the inclusion of women and 
minorities. The Senate did not propose similar language.
      Within the total for Research on Health Costs, Quality 
and Outcomes, the conference agreement includes $15,904,000 for 
the Prevention and Care Management program instead of 
$24,404,000 as proposed by the House and $7,100,000 as proposed 
by the Senate. Funding shall be used consistent with the 
language in House Report 111-220.
      Within the total for Research on Health Costs, Quality 
and Outcomes, the conference agreement includes $27,645,000 for 
Health Information Technology as proposed by the Senate instead 
of $32,320,000 as proposed by the House.
      Within the total for Research on Health Costs, Quality 
and Outcomes, the conference agreement includes $176,689,000 
for crosscutting activities related to quality, effectiveness, 
and efficiency research instead of $169,514,000 as proposed by 
the House. The Senate did not propose similar language. As 
proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement includes 
$23,596,000 to fund investigator-initiated research to develop 
a more balanced research agenda, supporting all aspects of 
health care research outlined in its statutory mission. The 
House included similar language, but not a specific dollar 
amount.
      Within the total for Research on Health Costs, Quality 
and Outcomes, the conference agreement includes $90,585,000 for 
Patient Safety instead of $66,585,000 as proposed by the House 
and $48,889,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Within the Patient Safety total, the conference agreement 
includes $25,000,000 for patient safety and medical liability 
reform demonstrations. Neither the House nor the Senate 
proposed similar language. The conferees are aware that medical 
liability concerns may lead doctors to practice ``defensive 
medicine,'' which in turn may contribute to higher costs in our 
health care system. The conferees are concerned about this and 
the possible implications that the fear of liability may be 
having on the delivery of health care services. Therefore, the 
conference agreement includes this funding for a three-pronged 
initiative consisting of demonstration grants to States and 
health systems to test implementation and evaluation of 
evidence-based patient safety and medical liability projects, 
grants to States and health systems to plan for implementation 
and evaluation of evidence-based patient safety and medical 
liability demonstrations, and a rapid and comprehensive review 
of initiatives that improve health care quality and reduce 
liability.
      The demonstration projects should test models that meet 
the following goals: put patient safety first and work to 
reduce preventable injuries; foster better communication 
between doctors and their patients; ensure that patients are 
compensated in a fair and timely manner for medical injuries, 
while also reducing the incidence of frivolous lawsuits; and 
reduce liability premiums.
      As proposed by the House, within the Patient Safety total 
the conference agreement includes $25,000,000 for healthcare-
associated infections prevention activities. The Senate did not 
propose similar language. Funding shall be used consistent with 
the language in House Report 111-220.
      Within the Patient Safety total, the conference agreement 
includes $9,000,000 for the Methicillin-Resistant 
Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) Collaborative Research Initiative 
instead of $10,000,000 as proposed by the House. The Senate did 
not propose similar language.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                  PAYMENTS TO HEALTH CARE TRUST FUNDS

      The conference agreement includes $393,070,000 for 
Program Management within Payments to Health Care Trust Funds 
instead of $403,070,000 as proposed by the House and 
$338,070,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                           PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

      The conference agreement includes $3,470,242,000 for 
Program Management instead of $3,463,362,000 as proposed by the 
House and $3,431,500,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the Senate identifying $81,600,000, made available 
for two years, to implement provisions in the Medicare 
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. The House 
bill did not include such language. The conferees do, however, 
assume $61,600,000 to implement these statutory provisions, 
made available for one fiscal year.
      The conference agreement includes $3,100,000 within 
Research, Demonstration and Evaluation for the following 
projects in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bi-State Primary Care Association, Concord, NH, to               600,000
 support uncompensated care to treat uninsured and
 underinsured patients.................................
Bi-State Primary Care Association, Montpelier, VT to             100,000
 treat uninsured patients..............................
Bi-State Primary Care, Concord, NH, for primary care             650,000
 workforce recruitment.................................
County of Ventura Health Care Agency, Ventura, CA for            200,000
 Medicaid enrollment programs..........................
Fond du Lac County, WI for the Save a Smile Program....          400,000
Iowa Dental Association, Johnston, IA, for a children's          250,000
 dental home demonstration project in Scott County.....
Jewish Healthcare Foundation, Pittsburgh, PA for                 100,000
 program to increase involvement of pharmacists in
 chronic disease management............................
Patient Advocate Foundation, Newport News, VA for a              300,000
 patient assistance program for the uninsured..........
University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the               500,000
 Medication Use and Outcomes Research Group............
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement includes $55,000,000 for State 
High Risk Insurance Pools instead of $65,000,000 as proposed by 
the House. The Senate did not propose High Risk Insurance Pool 
funding.
      The conference agreement includes $14,800,000 for the 
Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey as proposed by the House. 
The Senate did not identify funding for the Survey.
      Within the total funding for Research, Demonstration, and 
Evaluation, the conference agreement includes $2,500,000 for 
Real Choice Systems Change Grants to States as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose funding for this program.
      The conference agreement includes $45,000,000 for the 
State Health Insurance Program as proposed by the House. The 
Senate did not identify a funding level for this program.
      The conferees urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) to strengthen the agency's efforts against 
healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) by considering 
inclusion of HAIs in the CMS pay-for-reporting system and by 
expanding the use of HAIs in the CMS pay-for-performance 
system. The House proposed similar language. The Senate did not 
propose language.
      The conferees are concerned that the delivery of 
telehealth services may be disrupted by HHS requirements that 
result in duplicative credentialing and privileging of remote 
providers. The conferees direct the Secretary to report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate within 6 months of enactment on actions taken by 
CMS to reduce duplication and streamline federal credentialing 
and privileging requirements related to telehealth services. 
Neither the House nor Senate proposed similar language.

              HEALTH CARE FRAUD AND ABUSE CONTROL ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement includes $311,000,000 from the 
Medicare trust funds for the Health Care Fraud and Abuse 
Control Account, which is the same as both the House and the 
Senate. This level includes funding for CMS to expand its 
efforts to link Medicare claims and public records data as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose similar 
language.

                Administration for Children and Families

                   LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement includes $5,100,000,000 for the 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance program as proposed by both 
the House and Senate. Within this amount, the conferees intend 
that not more than $27,000,000 be used for the Leveraging 
Incentive program. The conferees maintain bill language 
proposed by the House allowing States to provide assistance to 
households with income up to 75 percent of the State median 
income. The Senate did not include a similar provision.

                     REFUGEE AND ENTRANT ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement includes $730,928,000 for 
Refugee and Entrant Assistance programs instead of $714,968,000 
as proposed by the House and $730,657,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Within the amount provided for Social Services, the 
conferees provide $19,000,000 for continued support to 
communities with large concentrations of Cuban and Haitian 
entrants as proposed by the House. The Senate did not specify 
an amount for this activity.
      Within the amount provided for the Unaccompanied Alien 
Children program, the conferees provide $5,600,000 to continue 
and expand the pro bono legal representation pilot program 
instead of $6,000,000 as proposed by the House. The Senate did 
not specify an amount for this activity.

                CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $9,314,532,000 for 
Children and Families Services Programs instead of 
$9,326,951,000 as proposed by the House and $9,310,465,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. In addition, $5,762,000 is made 
available under section 241 of the Public Health Service (PHS) 
Act as proposed by the Senate instead of $10,217,000 as 
proposed by the House. For comparability, these figures do not 
include funding for the teenage pregnancy prevention 
initiative, which is funded under the Office of the Secretary 
as proposed by the Senate.
Child Abuse Discretionary Activities
      Within the amount provided for Child Abuse Discretionary 
Activities, the conference agreement does not include funding 
for the nurse home visitation initiative, instead of 
$15,000,000 as proposed by the House and $13,500,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conferees anticipate that mandatory 
funding will be provided for this activity in fiscal year 2010 
as proposed by the Administration.
      Within the $20,785,000 included in the conference 
agreement, $3,175,000 shall be used for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Addison County Parent Child Center, Middlebury, VT, to           100,000
 support and expand parental education activities......
County of Contra Costa, Martinez, CA for an initiative           550,000
 for children and adolescents exposed to domestic
 violence..............................................
Douglas County C.A.R.E.S., Roseburg, OR for the Kids in          300,000
 Common program to provide services to abused and
 neglected children....................................
Klingberg Family Centers, Hartford, CT, for child abuse          125,000
 prevention and intervention services..................
Marcus Autism Center, Atlanta, GA for an autism                  300,000
 initiative............................................
Oregon Association of Relief Nurseries, Medford, OR, to          100,000
 provide early childhood development and education for
 children at risk of abuse and neglect.................
Parents Anonymous, Inc, Claremont, CA, for a national            500,000
 parent helpline to prevent child abuse and neglect....
Prevent Child Abuse Vermont, Montpelier, VT, to expand           500,000
 the SAFE-T Prevention Program.........................
University of California, Merced/The Great Valley                300,000
 Center, Merced, CA for child abuse prevention
 education services....................................
Wynona's House, Newark, NJ, for a child sexual abuse             400,000
 intervention program..................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Social Services and Income Maintenance Research
      Within the total for Social Services and Income 
Maintenance Research, the conference agreement includes 
$2,000,000 for benefits outreach and enrollment assistance 
activities. The conferees intend that these funds be awarded 
competitively to private, non-profit organizations to support 
on-going, facilitated outreach and enrollment assistance to 
low-income individuals and families to access already existing 
Federal, State, and local benefit programs. The Senate included 
a similar provision within the Corporation for National and 
Community Service. The House did not include similar language.
      Within the $20,785,000 included in the conference 
agreement, $17,610,000 shall be used for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
211 Maine, Inc, Portland, ME, to provide for telephone           150,000
 connections to community health and social services...
Asian Pacific Women, Los Angeles, CA for a domestic               50,000
 violence prevention and education initiative..........
AVANCE, Inc, San Antonio, TX, for a parent-child                 200,000
 education program.....................................
Barry University, Miami Shores, FL for the Center for            300,000
 Community Services Initiatives........................
Beth El House, Alexandria, VA for housing and social             200,000
 services to formerly homeless single mothers and their
 families..............................................
Bethany House, Laredo, TX for equipment and job                  230,000
 training resources to help the unemployed find gainful
 employment............................................
Bethel's Place, Houston, TX for the Heavenly Hands               100,000
 community project.....................................
Beyond Shelter, Los Angeles, CA for a crisis                     400,000
 intervention demonstration project....................
Campus Kitchens Project, Washington, DC, for services             75,000
 to the homeless community.............................
Chabad of South Bay, Lomita, CA for a project to                 370,000
 improve services for youth and families in crisis.....
Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters Health               500,000
 System, Norfolk, VA for a comprehensive program to
 treat abused children.................................
City of Bellevue, WA for the Wrap-Around Services                375,000
 program...............................................
City of Emeryville, CA for early childhood development,          250,000
 counseling, and related services......................
City of Ft. Worth, TX for the Early Childhood Matters            425,000
 Initiative............................................
City of Norwich, CT for services to pregnant and                  85,000
 parenting adolescents and their families..............
City of San Jose, CA, for early childhood education              300,000
 improvement...........................................
Connecticut Council of Family Service Agencies,                  200,000
 Wethersfield, CT, for a Family Development Network....
Connecting for Children and Families, Inc, Woonsocket,           300,000
 RI, to provide training and assistance to economically
 challenged families...................................
Council of Peoples Organization, Brooklyn, NY for the            150,000
 Community Youth Program...............................
County of Monterey, Salinas, CA, for the Silver Star           1,500,000
 Gang Prevention and Intervention program..............
Easter Seals of Southern Georgia, Albany, GA for                 100,000
 respite services for children who are developmentally
 disabled, have autism, or are medically fragile.......
Erie Neighborhood House, Chicago, IL, for an initiative          250,000
 addressing the needs of low-income children with
 emotional or behavioral difficulties..................
Eva's Place, Sandusky, MI for domestic violence service          200,000
 programs..............................................
First 5 Alameda County, San Leandro, CA for its                  500,000
 children's screening, assessment, referral, and
 treatment initiative..................................
Friends Association for Care and Protection of                   100,000
 Children, West Chester, PA, for emergency services for
 homeless families.....................................
Glenwood School for Boys and Girls, Glenwood, IL for             350,000
 housing support and educational and social skills
 development programs..................................
Greater New Britain Teen Pregnancy Prevention, Inc.,             100,000
 New Britain, CT for teen pregnancy prevention services
Gregory House Programs, Honolulu, HI for a                       100,000
 comprehensive homelessness prevention program for
 people living with HIV/AIDS...........................
Homeless Prenatal Program, San Francisco CA for case             400,000
 management and supportive services....................
Hope Institute for Children and Families, Springfield,           100,000
 IL for facilities and equipment.......................
Horizons for Homeless Children, Boston, MA for programs          730,000
 for homeless children.................................
Human Services Coalition of Tompkins County, Inc.,                50,000
 Ithaca, NY for 2-1-1 Tompkins to provide access to
 social services.......................................
Huron County Safe Place, Bad Axe, MI for domestic                150,000
 violence service programs.............................
Jewish Community Council of Canarsie, Brooklyn, NY for           300,000
 services for at-risk Holocaust survivors..............
Lapeer Area Citizens Against Domestic Assault, Lapeer,           200,000
 MI for domestic violence service programs.............
Larkin Street Youth Services, San Francisco, CA for              300,000
 homeless and runaway youth services...................
LifeStyles of Maryland, Inc., La Plata, MD for its Safe           60,000
 Nights Program for homeless and disadvantaged
 populations...........................................
Little Friends, Inc., Naperville, IL for an autism               200,000
 initiative............................................
Make the Road New York, Jackson Heights, NY for support          300,000
 services for low-income and working families..........
Michigan Association Of United Ways, Lansing, MI, to             200,000
 provide work supports through a statewide 2-1-1 system
Montgomery County Department of Health and Human                 200,000
 Services, Rockville, MD for community based service
 delivery and outreach.................................
National Energy Assistance Directors' Association,               200,000
 Washington, DC for research and information
 dissemination related to the Low Income Home Energy
 Assistance Program....................................
North Ward Center, Newark, NJ for comprehensive                  400,000
 services for people with autism spectrum disorders....
Pathways PA, Holmes, PA for services for pregnant and            150,000
 parenting teens.......................................
Pierce County Alliance, Tacoma, WA for a program to              150,000
 expedite the permanent placement of child victims of
 parental abuse or neglect.............................
Polaris Project, Washington, DC for the New Jersey               250,000
 Trafficking Intervention Program......................
Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD for a                 165,000
 program for transition aged youth.....................
Provo City, UT, for a mentoring program for at-risk              350,000
 families..............................................
Safe Horizons, Port Huron, MI for domestic violence              200,000
 service programs......................................
Salvation Army San Bernardino Center for Worship and             160,000
 Service, San Bernardino, CA for the Support Family
 Services Program......................................
Santa Clara Family Health Plan, Campbell, CA for a               300,000
 program to transfer medically fragile and severely
 developmentally disabled individuals from an
 institutional setting.................................
SingleStop USA, New York, NY, to help low-income                 150,000
 families and individuals in New Jersey access
 available services....................................
SingleStop USA, San Francisco, CA for a program to               100,000
 increase low-income households' access to social
 services..............................................
Somerset Home for Temporarily Displaced Children,                400,000
 Bridgewater, NJ for a transitional/permanent housing
 program for youth who have aged out of foster care....
Susanna Wesley Family Learning Center, East Prairie, MO          250,000
 to assist at-risk youth and their families............
TLC for Children and Families, Inc, Olathe, KS, for              200,000
 youth transitional living programs....................
United Methodist Children's Home of Alabama and West             100,000
 Florida, Selma, AL, for expansion and related expenses
 for children's services...............................
United Way Anchorage, Anchorage, AK, for the Alaska 2-1-         100,000
 1 referral system.....................................
United Way of Central Maryland, Baltimore, MD, to                800,000
 provide social services through the 2-1-1 Maryland
 Program...............................................
United Way of the Capital Area, Jackson, MS, for 2-1-1           400,000
 Mississippi...........................................
University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for the West               355,000
 Alabama Autism Outreach Center........................
University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg, MO for              280,000
 services for people with Autism Spectrum Disorders....
University of Toledo, Toledo, OH for services for                500,000
 persons with autism and research on autism spectrum
 disorders.............................................
Washington Asset Building Coalition, Olympia, WA, to             100,000
 expand financial education and counseling services to
 low-income residents..................................
Washington Information Network, Renton, WA, to improve           100,000
 and expand 2-1-1 referral services....................
Wayne County Department of Children and Family                   150,000
 Services, Detroit, MI for the Kids-TALK forensic
 interviewing project..................................
YWCA of Monterey County, Monterey, CA for expansion of           250,000
 direct services and prevention programs to combat
 domestic and gang violence............................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Developmental Disabilities Assistance
      Within the amount provided for Developmental Disabilities 
Assistance Projects of National Significance, the conferees 
encourage the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) to 
establish a national autism resource and information center as 
proposed by the Senate, but do not designate $3,000,000 for 
this purpose as proposed by the House.
Native American Programs
      Within the amount provided for Native American programs, 
the conference agreement includes $12,000,000 for Native 
American language preservation activities including no less 
than $4,000,000 for language immersion programs as proposed in 
Senate Report 111-66. The House included similar language.
Community Services
      Within the amount provided for the Community Services 
Block Grant (CSBG), the conferees direct ACF to allocate 
$500,000 of CSBG training and technical assistance funds for 
continuation of a national community economic development 
training and capacity development initiative as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not include similar language.
      The conferees are concerned that individuals and families 
affected by the economic recession are not receiving critical 
health care, nutrition assistance, tax credits and other 
benefits for which they qualify. The Recovery Act required one 
percent of the $1,000,000,000 for CSBG grants to be used by 
States for ``benefits enrollment coordination activities 
relating to the identification and enrollment of eligible 
individuals and families in Federal, State and local benefit 
programs''. The conferees direct ACF to report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate on the States' use of the funds and whether 
these funds achieved the intended purpose.
Teen Pregnancy Prevention
      The conference agreement includes funding for a new 
Teenage Pregnancy Prevention program within the Office of the 
Secretary as proposed by the Senate instead of ACF as proposed 
by the House. The conferees provide guidance regarding the 
administration of this initiative under the Office of the 
Secretary.

                        Administration on Aging

                        AGING SERVICES PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement includes $1,516,297,000 for 
Aging Services Programs instead of $1,530,881,000 as proposed 
by the House and $1,495,038,000 as proposed by the Senate.
Program Innovations
      Within the total for Program Innovations, the conference 
agreement includes the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Budget activity                              House            Senate         Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Model Approaches to Statewide Legal Assistance Systems.......        2,000,000        2,000,000        2,000,000
National Legal Assistance & Support Projects.................          746,000          746,000          746,000
National Education & Resource Center on Women and Retirement.          249,000          249,000          249,000
Multigenerational Civic Engagement...........................          982,000          982,000          982,000
National Resource Center on Native Americans.................          693,000          693,000          693,000
National Minority Aging Organizations: Asian-Pacific                   357,000          357,000          357,000
 Americans...................................................
National Minority Aging Organizations: Native Americans......          129,000          129,000          129,000
National Minority Aging Organizations: Hispanic & African              448,000          448,000          448,000
 Americans...................................................
National Alzheimer's Call Center.............................        1,000,000        1,000,000        1,000,000
Community Innovations for Aging in Place.....................        8,000,000        5,000,000        5,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement includes $5,974,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Catholic Charities Hawaii, Honolulu, HI for an                   400,000
 independent living demonstration project..............
Center on Halsted, Chicago, IL for wellness services             475,000
 for seniors...........................................
City of Fremont, CA for training, coordination, and              150,000
 outreach to address the needs of seniors..............
City of Long Beach, CA for a program to coordinate               100,000
 senior services and activities within the region......
County of Ventura, CA for an elder abuse prevention and          654,000
 treatment program.....................................
Family Caregiver Alliance, San Francisco, CA for a               500,000
 National Resource Center on Family Caregiving.........
Gallagher Outreach Program Inc, Sunnyside, NY, for               200,000
 outreach and social services to elderly Irish
 immigrants............................................
Jewish Family and Children's Service of Minneapolis,             250,000
 Minnetonka, MN for the Family Caregiver Access Network
 Demonstration Project.................................
Jewish Family Service of Central New Jersey, Elizabeth,          300,000
 NJ for an aging-in-place demonstration................
Jewish Family Service of Metropolitan Detroit, West              200,000
 Bloomfield, MI for a family caregiver services
 development project...................................
Jewish Family Service of Somerset, Hunterdon and Warren          225,000
 Counties, Somerville, NJ for an aging-in-place
 demonstration.........................................
Jewish Family Services of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, for          300,000
 community-based caregiver services....................
Jewish Federation of Greater Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, for           100,000
 services at a naturally occurring retirement community
Lifespan of Greater Rochester, Inc, Rochester, NY, for           100,000
 activities to prevent elder abuse.....................
Mosaic, Garden City, KS, for the legacy senior services          350,000
 initiative............................................
NORC Supportive Services Center, Inc., New York, NY for          500,000
 a program to provide medical products and services to
 seniors...............................................
Rebuilding Together, Inc., Washington, DC for the Safe           350,000
 at Home falls prevention initiative...................
Stetson University College of Law, Gulfport, FL for a            100,000
 demonstration program to educate seniors on economic
 issues................................................
UJA Federation of Northern New Jersey, Paramus, NJ for           200,000
 an aging-in-place program.............................
United Jewish Communities of MetroWestNJ, Whippany, NJ           100,000
 for the Lifelong Involvement for Vital Elders
 independent aging demonstration program...............
Washoe County Senior Services, Carson City, NV, for the          195,000
 RSVP Home Companion Senior Respite Care Program.......
Westminster Village, Allentown, PA for the Demential             225,000
 Leadership Initiative Program.........................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        Office of the Secretary

                    GENERAL DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $499,228,000 for 
General Departmental Management, including $5,851,000 from 
Medicare trust funds instead of $512,452,000 as proposed by the 
House and $483,779,000 as proposed by the Senate. In addition, 
the conference agreement includes $65,211,000 in program 
evaluation funding instead of $74,211,000 as proposed by the 
House and $64,211,000 as proposed by the Senate. For 
comparability, these figures include funding for the teenage 
pregnancy prevention initiative, which was funded under the 
Administration for Children and Families in the House bill.
      Within Public Health Service Act program evaluation 
funding, the conference agreement designates $1,000,000 to 
carry out informational services to patients and families 
affected by childhood cancer authorized under the Caroline 
Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act. The House proposed 
$10,000,000 to implement this Act and the Senate did not 
include a similar provision. The conference agreement allocates 
an additional $3,000,000 for a childhood cancer registry within 
funds provided to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention.
      Within the funds for the Office of the Secretary, the 
conference agreement includes $5,000,000 as proposed by the 
House to continue Departmental activities related to reducing 
healthcare-associated infections. The Senate did not include a 
similar provision.
      Within the funds for the Office of the Secretary, the 
conference agreement designates $900,000 for the Institute of 
Medicine to conduct a study on the mental health workforce as 
proposed in House Report 111-220. The House proposed $1,000,000 
for this activity and the Senate did not include a similar 
provision.
      Within the funds for the Office of the Secretary, the 
conference agreement includes sufficient funds to continue the 
Area and National Poverty Centers at no less than the fiscal 
year 2009 level as proposed by the House. The Senate did not 
include a similar provision.
      Within the funds for the Office of the Secretary, the 
conference agreement includes $4,500,000 for the health 
diplomacy initiative. The House did not specify funds for this 
activity and the Senate proposed $7,000,000.
      The conferees direct the Secretary to establish an Office 
of Adolescent Health, as authorized under section 1708 of the 
Public Health Service Act and as proposed in Senate Report 111-
66. The conference agreement includes sufficient funds for this 
purpose, but does not identify a specific amount. The Senate 
proposed $2,000,000 for this office. The House did not propose 
a similar provision.
      The conference agreement provides $110,000,000 for a new 
teenage pregnancy prevention initiative. The House proposed 
$110,000,000 for this initiative under the Administration for 
Children and Families and the Senate proposed $100,000,000 
under the Office of the Secretary.
      The conferees intend that the Office of Adolescent Health 
shall be responsible for implementing and administering the 
teenage pregnancy prevention program, as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conferees intend that the Office of Adolescent Health 
shall coordinate its efforts with the Administration for 
Children and Families, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, and other appropriate HHS offices and operating 
divisions. No later than 60 days after the date of enactment, 
the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the implementation status of the Office of Adolescent 
Health and the teenage pregnancy prevention program.
      Regarding this appropriation, the conference agreement 
includes bill language providing that not less than $75,000,000 
shall be for programs that replicate teenage pregnancy 
prevention programs proven effective through rigorous 
evaluation. The conferees intend that a wide range of evidence-
based programs should be eligible for these funds. In addition, 
bill language provides that not less than $25,000,000 shall be 
for research and demonstration grants to develop, replicate, 
refine, and test additional models and innovative strategies 
for preventing teenage pregnancy; and that the remaining 
amounts may be used for training and technical assistance, 
evaluation, outreach, and additional program support. The 
conferees intend that programs funded under this initiative 
will stress the value of abstinence and provide age-appropriate 
information to youth that is scientifically and medically 
accurate. Finally, the conference agreement provides $4,455,000 
within Public Health Service Act program evaluation funding, as 
proposed by both the House and Senate, to carry out evaluations 
(including longitudinal evaluations) of teenage pregnancy 
prevention approaches.
      The conferees expect the Office of the Secretary to 
support activities that are targeted to address the growing 
HIV/AIDS epidemic and its disproportionate impact upon 
communities of color, including African Americans, Latinos, 
Native Americans, Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and 
Pacific Islanders, at no less than the fiscal year 2009 funding 
level as proposed by the House. The Senate did not include a 
similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes $1,650,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Project                               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
BayCare Health System, Tampa, FL for a community-based           200,000
 health outreach program to address health disparities
 in South Pinellas and Hillsborough counties...........
Community Transportation Association of America,                 950,000
 Washington, DC, for technical assistance to human
 services transportation providers on ADA requirements.
South Central Family Health Center, Los Angeles, CA for          100,000
 a community diabetes management initiative............
University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL for a health           400,000
 information technology evaluation project.............
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement does not include provisions 
proposed by the House requiring specific information requests 
on scientific research be transmitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
in a prompt, professional manner and uncensored. The conferees 
agree that these provisions are no longer necessary. The Senate 
did not propose similar provisions.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
proposed by the Senate designating not more than $3,200,000 and 
26 full-time equivalents for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislation. The House did not propose a similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the House designating certain funds within the 
Adolescent Family Life program for section 2003(b)(2) of title 
XX of the Public Health Service Act and for prevention 
demonstration grants for reducing teenage pregnancy. The Senate 
did not propose similar provisions.
      The conference agreement includes $4,000,000 within the 
Office of Minority Health for an effort to address health 
disparities issues in the Gulf Coast region as described in 
Senate Report 111-66. The House did not propose funding for 
this activity and the Senate proposed $5,283,000.
      The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 within the 
Office of Minority Health to continue the national health 
provider education program to improve lupus diagnosis and 
treatment and reduce health disparities. Both the House and 
Senate proposed a similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes $2,325,000 within the 
Office of Women's Health to continue the violence against women 
initiative to enhance health care provider education and 
develop a coordinated public health response as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not propose a similar provision.

  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL COORDINATOR FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

      The conference agreement includes $61,342,000 for the 
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information 
Technology, of which $42,331,000 is provided in budget 
authority and $19,011,000 is made available through the Public 
Health Service program evaluation set-aside as proposed by the 
Senate. The House proposed the same program level, but through 
a different allocation of budget authority and evaluation set-
aside.

            PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES EMERGENCY FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $2,306,694,000 for the 
Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund instead of 
$2,100,649,000 as proposed by the House and $2,621,154,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      As proposed by both the House and Senate, the conference 
agreement includes bill language transferring all remaining 
balances in the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund (SRF) 
from the Department of Homeland Security to the Department of 
Health and Human Services (HHS). This transfer aligns the 
financial responsibility of the Project BioShield SRF with HHS 
programmatic responsibility.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
transferring $304,000,000 from the Project BioShield SRF to the 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) 
instead of $500,000,000 as proposed by the House. The Senate 
did not propose a similar transfer to NIAID. Together with the 
$305,000,000 transfer proposed by both the House and Senate for 
Advanced Research and Development, a total of $609,000,000 will 
be transferred from the Project BioShield SRF. As of October 
31, 2009, data from HHS indicate that $3,033,000,000 remains 
unobligated and available in the Project BioShield SRF, 
therefore after these transfers a total of $2,424,000,000 will 
be available through fiscal year 2013 to procure and stockpile 
emergency medical countermeasures.
      Within the total for Preparedness and Emergency 
Operations, the conference agreement includes sufficient 
funding to prepare for and respond to non-Stafford Act National 
Special Security Events and other planned and unplanned events. 
The House proposed $10,000,000 for this activity. The Senate 
did not propose similar language.

                           General Provisions

                      PROGRAM EVALUATION SET-ASIDE

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
capping the permitted use of the program evaluation set-aside 
at 2.5 percent of funds authorized under the Public Health 
Service Act instead of 2.4 percent as proposed by both the 
House and Senate.

                     ONE PERCENT TRANSFER AUTHORITY

                          (TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement continues a general provision as 
proposed by the Senate providing the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services the authority to transfer up to one percent of 
discretionary funds between a program, project, or activity. 
The House proposed this transfer authority at the account 
level.

                INTERNATIONAL HEALTH ACTIVITIES STAFFING

      The conference agreement continues a general provision 
allowing Department of Health and Human Services health 
activities abroad to be supported under State Department 
authorities and includes an additional provision as proposed by 
the Senate authorizing the Secretary to pay personnel assigned 
abroad allowances and benefits similar to those for foreign 
service officers. The House did not propose the additional 
provision.

       CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION STAFF TRAINING

      The conference agreement continues a general provision 
regarding Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Individual 
Learning Accounts as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
propose a similar provision.

                    CONFLICT OF INTEREST REGULATIONS

      The conference agreement includes a general provision as 
proposed by the Senate requiring the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to amend regulations by May 1, 2010 regarding 
financial conflict of interest among National Institutes of 
Health extramural investigators and institutions. The House did 
not propose a similar provision.
      The conferees are concerned that occurrences of conflict 
of interest among extramural grantees are investigated only 
when a complaint is received by the Department of Health and 
Human Services Office of Research Integrity. The conferees 
encourage NIH to develop a system for periodic review of 
conflict of interest documentation at extramural institutions 
to give some assurance that the new conflict of interest 
regulations have an effect.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

      The conference agreement includes $15,914,666,000 for 
Education for the Disadvantaged instead of $15,938,215,000 as 
proposed by the House and $15,891,132,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement provides $5,073,490,000 in 
fiscal year 2010 and $10,841,176,000 in fiscal year 2011 
funding for this account.
      For Title I School Improvement Grants, the conference 
agreement includes bill language permitting fiscal year 2010 
appropriations and funds appropriated under the Recovery Act 
for these grants to be used by local educational agencies to 
serve any Title I, part A-eligible school that has not made 
adequate yearly progress for at least two years or is in a 
State's lowest quintile of performance based on proficiency 
rates and, in the case of secondary schools, priority shall be 
given to those schools with graduation rates below 60 percent. 
Both the House and Senate proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement modifies bill language proposed 
by the Senate permitting the Secretary to establish minimum and 
maximum subgrant sizes applicable to fiscal year 2010 and 
Recovery Act funds for Title I School Improvement Grants. The 
conference agreement includes bill language permitting each 
State educational agency to award subgrants of up to $2,000,000 
in size for each school eligible for Title I School Improvement 
Grants funding. The House did not propose similar language.
      For school improvement activities authorized under 
section 1003(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
(ESEA), the conference agreement includes a technical 
clarification in bill language as proposed by the Senate 
clarifying that Title I funds appropriated in the Recovery Act 
are excluded from the calculation of amounts States may reserve 
for school improvement activities under section 1003(a) of the 
ESEA. The House proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the House requiring each State educational agency 
to ensure that not less than 50 percent of its allocation under 
Title I School Improvement Grants is used for evidence-based 
reading instruction. The Senate did not propose a similar 
provision. The conferees encourage the Department to work with 
State educational agencies to ensure that evidence-based 
reading instruction is embedded in school turnaround strategies 
for low-performing schools.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
reserving $30,000,000 of Title I School Improvement Grants for 
competitive awards to local educational agencies located in 
counties in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas that were 
affected by Hurricanes Katrina, Ike, or Gustav, and specifying 
certain uses of these funds as proposed by the Senate. The 
House did not propose a similar provision. Instead, the 
conference agreement includes bill language providing 
$12,000,000 for competitive awards to Gulf Coast schools under 
the Fund for the Improvement of Education.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the Senate requiring each State educational agency 
to ensure that 40 percent of its allocation under Title I 
School Improvement Grants is spent on improvement activities in 
middle and high schools, unless the State educational agency 
makes a determination that all middle and high schools can be 
served with a lesser amount. The House did not propose a 
similar provision.
      For the Striving Readers program, the conference 
agreement modifies bill language proposed by the Senate 
designating funds under section 1502 of the ESEA for a 
comprehensive literacy program, including pre-literacy skills, 
reading, and writing, for students from birth through grade 12. 
Of the total provided for this initiative, certain funds are 
reserved: (1) $10,000,000 for formula grants to States to 
support State Literacy teams, (2) one-half of one percent for 
the Secretary of Interior for the Bureau of Indian Education, 
(3) one-half of one percent for outlying areas, (4) and up to 
five percent for national activities conducted by the Secretary 
of Education. The remainder of the funds must be used for 
competitive awards to State educational agencies, of which up 
to five percent may be used for State leadership activities and 
not less than 95 percent shall be awarded as subgrants to local 
educational agencies or other entities, giving priority to such 
agencies or entities serving greater numbers or percentages of 
disadvantaged children. The conference agreement provides that 
State subgrants must be allocated as follows: (1) at least 15 
percent to serve children from birth through age five, (2) 40 
percent to serve students in kindergarten through grade five, 
and (3) 40 percent to serve students in middle and high school, 
through grade 12, including an equitable distribution of funds 
between middle and high schools. Eligible entities receiving 
comprehensive literacy program subgrants must use these funds 
for services and activities that have certain characteristics 
of effective literacy instruction. The House proposed other 
funding designations for adolescent literacy, early literacy, 
and national activities and evaluation related to early 
childhood and adolescent literacy.
      The conferees direct the Department to prepare an 
implementation plan for K-12 literacy-related activities 
including, but not limited to, activities under Title I School 
Improvement Grants, Striving Readers, Reading is Fundamental, 
Reach Out and Read, and the Institute of Education Sciences, as 
proposed by the House. The Senate report did not propose 
similar report language. This plan shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate not later than 30 days prior to release of a 
request for proposals under the Striving Readers program.
      The conferees request that the Department of Education 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) continue to monitor the 
Department's implementation of procedures to identify, 
disclose, and manage potential conflicts of interest, as the 
Department implements this new comprehensive reading 
initiative. The conferees request that the OIG submit a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate within one year after enactment 
of this Act assessing the adequacy of such procedures.
      Within the amount for the High School Graduation 
initiative, the conference agreement provides that up to 
$5,000,000 may be used for peer review, technical assistance, 
dissemination, evaluation, and other national activities as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The conferees direct 
the Department to provide a briefing to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
on the planned uses of funds for this initiative not less than 
30 days prior to a request for proposals as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not propose similar report language.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the Senate specifying that funds for School 
Renovation shall be allocated under the terms and conditions of 
S. 1121 (School Building Fairness Act of 2009), as introduced 
in the Senate on May 21, 2009. The House did not propose a 
similar provision.

                               Impact Aid

      The conference agreement includes $1,276,183,000 for 
Impact Aid instead of $1,290,718,000 as proposed by the House 
and $1,265,718,000 as proposed by the Senate. In addition, the 
conference agreement includes bill language providing one-year 
availability of funds for Impact Aid construction grants as 
proposed by the Senate instead of two-year availability of 
funds as proposed by the House.

                      School Improvement Programs

      The conference agreement includes $5,228,444,000 for the 
School Improvement Programs account instead of $5,244,644,000 
as proposed by the House and $5,197,316,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement provides $3,547,003,000 in 
fiscal year 2010 and $1,681,441,000 in fiscal year 2011 funding 
for this account.
      Within the amount provided for Teacher Quality State 
Grants, the conference agreement includes $5,000,000 to 
continue a national initiative to recruit, train, and support 
results-oriented, highly motivated individuals to lead high-
need schools with a focus on raising the achievement of all 
students and closing the achievement gap in these schools. New 
Leaders for New Schools (NLNS) shall utilize these funds to 
support the organization's efforts to develop and deliver 
training for aspiring principals and support for principals, 
and conduct research to create a national knowledge base to 
inform the recruitment, selection, and training of principals 
for high-need schools. NLNS and its partners shall provide not 
less than a 150 percent match in cash or in-kind for the 
Federal funds provided for this initiative. The match may 
consist of cash or in-kind offerings by private philanthropy or 
public sources, including funding allocated by partner State 
and school systems, and may be used for any purpose related to 
the program's recruitment, training, and residencies for 
aspiring principals, the ongoing coaching and support of those 
school leaders, as well as related research activities. The 
House proposed funding for this initiative under School 
Leadership in Innovation and Improvement. The Senate did not 
propose a similar provision.
      For the Education Technology program, the conference 
agreement includes bill language permitting funds reserved for 
national activities to be used for activities authorized under 
section 802 of the Higher Education Opportunity Act. Neither 
the House nor the Senate proposed similar language.
      For the Foreign Language Assistance program, the 
conference agreement designates $9,729,000 as proposed by the 
Senate for five-year grants to local educational agencies that 
work in partnership with higher education institutions to 
establish articulated programs of study in national security-
related languages. The House proposed $9,360,000.
      The conference agreement includes bill language proposed 
by the Senate that allows funds under the Education of Native 
Hawaiians program to be used for construction, renovation, and 
modernization of any elementary school, secondary school, or 
related structure run by the Department of Education of the 
State of Hawaii that serves a predominantly Native Hawaiian 
student body. The House proposed similar language.
      The conference agreement also modifies bill language 
proposed by the Senate to designate, within the amount provided 
for the Education of Native Hawaiians program, not less than 
$1,500,000 to the Hawaii Department of Education for school 
construction/renovation activities, $1,500,000 for the 
University of Hawaii's Center of Excellence in Native Hawaiian 
Law, and $500,000 for the Henry K. Guigni Memorial Archives at 
the University of Hawaii as authorized under part Z of title 
VIII of the Higher Education Act. The House did not propose 
similar language.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
proposed by the House that permits the Secretary of Education 
to implement the Alaska Native Education Equity program without 
regard to earmarks included in the program's authorizing 
statute. The Senate did not propose similar language.

                            Indian Education

      The conference agreement includes $127,282,000 for Indian 
Education instead of $132,282,000 as proposed by the House and 
$122,282,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                       Innovation and Improvement

      The conference agreement includes $1,389,065,000 for 
Innovation and Improvement instead of $1,347,363,000 as 
proposed by the House and $1,234,787,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      For the Advanced Credentialing program, the conference 
agreement specifies $10,649,000 for the National Board of 
Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) as proposed by the 
Senate. The agreement does not include the House proposal to 
designate $1,000,000 of these funds in bill language for a 
certification program for principals of elementary and 
secondary schools.
      For Teach for America (TFA), the conference agreement 
provides $18,000,000 as authorized under part F of title VIII 
of the Higher Education Act. The House proposed $15,000,000 for 
TFA under the Fund for the Improvement of Education for this 
activity and the Senate proposed $20,000,000 under the Higher 
Education Act.
      For the Charter School program, the conference agreement 
includes bill language as proposed by the Senate to permit the 
Secretary of Education to use up to $23,082,000 for the Per-
Pupil Facilities Aid program and the Credit Enhancement for 
Charter School Facilities program. The agreement modifies 
language proposed in both the House and Senate bills to allow 
the Secretary to reserve up to $50,000,000 to make multiple 
awards to nonprofit charter management organizations and other 
entities that are not for-profit entities for replication and 
expansion of successful charter school models.
      The conference agreement also modifies bill language for 
the Charter School program proposed by the House mandating that 
the Secretary of Education reserve $10,000,000 to carry out 
technical assistance, including such assistance to authorized 
public chartering agencies in order to increase the number of 
high-performing charter schools; and that each Charter School 
program application describe a plan to monitor and hold 
accountable authorized public chartering agencies through such 
activities as providing technical assistance or establishing a 
professional development program. The bill language also 
mandates that each Charter School program application contain 
assurances that State law, regulations, or other policies 
require: (1) each authorized charter school in the State to 
operate under a legally binding charter or performance 
contract, conduct audits, and demonstrate improved achievement; 
and (2) authorized public chartering agencies to use increases 
in student achievement for all groups of students as the most 
important factor in renewing or revoking a school's charter. 
The Senate did not propose similar language.
      Finally, for the Charter School program, the conference 
agreement includes bill language requiring the Department to 
submit a report describing the planned uses of certain funds 
prior to their obligation. Neither the House nor the Senate 
proposed similar language.
      For the Teacher Incentive Fund (TIF), the conference 
agreement includes bill language as proposed by the Senate 
that: (1) requires TIF grantees to demonstrate that teacher 
performance-based compensation systems are developed with the 
input of teachers and school leaders, (2) permits TIF grantees 
to use funds to develop or improve systems and tools to enhance 
the quality and success of teacher compensation systems, and 
(3) requires applications for TIF grants to include a plan to 
sustain financially the activities conducted and systems 
developed once the grant period has expired. The House did not 
propose these provisions.
      Within the funds provided for TIF, approximately 
$220,000,000 will be used to continue fiscal year 2009 awards 
and the remaining funds will be available for new awards, 
training, technical assistance, evaluation and peer review 
activities.
Fund for the Improvement of Education (FIE)
      Within FIE, the conference agreement includes funding for 
the following activities in the following amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arts in Education......................................        $40,166,000        $40,000,000        $40,000,000
Communities in Schools.................................                  0          5,000,000          3,500,000
Data Quality and Evaluation............................          3,000,000          3,000,000          3,000,000
Excellence in Economics Education Act..................          1,447,000          1,447,000          1,447,000
Exchanges with Historic Whaling and Trading Partners...                  0          9,000,000          8,754,000
Foundations for Learning...............................          1,000,000                  0          1,000,000
Full Service Community Schools.........................         10,000,000          5,000,000         10,000,000
Gulf Coast Schools.....................................                  0                  0         12,000,000
Mental Health Integration..............................                  0          6,913,000          5,913,000
National Clearinghouse for Educational Facilities......                  0          1,000,000          1,000,000
National History Day...................................            500,000            500,000            500,000
Parental Assistance Information Centers................         39,254,000         39,254,000         39,254,000
Peer Review............................................            670,000            670,000            670,000
Presidential and Congressional History Academies.......                  0                  0          1,815,000
Promise Neighborhoods..................................         10,000,000         10,000,000         10,000,000
Reach Out and Read.....................................          6,965,000          6,000,000          6,000,000
Reading is Fundamental.................................         24,803,000         25,000,000         24,803,000
Ready to Teach.........................................                  0         10,700,000         10,700,000
Women's Educational Equity.............................          2,423,000          2,423,000          2,423,000
Other Activities.......................................          4,706,000          5,000,000                  0
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      As proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement 
includes $6,000,000 for Reach Out and Read, but does not 
specify this amount in bill language. The House proposed to 
designate an amount in the bill.
      Within the funds provided for Arts in Education, the 
conferees concur in the following allocations: $9,060,000 for 
VSA arts; $6,838,000 for the John F. Kennedy Center for the 
Performing Arts; $14,616,000 for model arts programs; 
$9,000,000 for model professional development programs for 
music, drama, dance, and visual arts educators; and $486,000 
for evaluation activities.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
allocating $12,000,000 for competitive awards to local 
educational agencies located in counties in Louisiana, 
Mississippi, and Texas that were affected by Hurricanes 
Katrina, Ike, or Gustav, and specifying the eligible uses of 
these awards, including instructional materials and equipment, 
teacher incentives, school modernization and renovation, 
Advanced Placement or other rigorous courses, charter schools, 
and extended learning activities. Neither the House nor the 
Senate included similar language under the FIE. The Senate 
proposed $30,000,000 for Gulf Coast schools under Education for 
the Disadvantaged.
      For the Promise Neighborhoods initiative, the conferees 
direct the Department to provide a briefing to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on the planned use of funds not less than 30 days prior 
to the release of a request for proposals as proposed by the 
House. The Senate did not propose similar language.
      The conference agreement does not include funding for the 
National Teacher Recruitment Campaign as proposed by the 
Senate. The House included $10,000,000 for this activity.
      The conferees expect the increase over fiscal year 2009 
for Ready to Learn to be used for outreach programs by the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting as proposed by the Senate. 
The House did not propose similar language.
      The conference agreement includes $88,791,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

        Project                                                   Amount
3D School, Petal, MS, for a model dyslexia intervention 
    program...................................................   250,000
Action for Bridgeport Community Development, Inc., Bridgeport, 
    CT for its Total Learning early childhood initiative......   700,000
Adelphi University, Garden City, NY, to support the Adelphi 
    University Institute for Math and Science Teachers........   200,000
Alabama School of Math and Science, Mobile, AL for curriculum 
    development and teacher training, including purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Alaska Native Heritage Center, Anchorage, AK for educational 
    programming and outreach..................................   150,000
America Scores, St. Louis, MO for an after-school program.....   200,000
An Achievable Dream, Newport News, VA for education and 
    support services for at-risk children.....................   300,000
Aquatic Adventures Science Education Foundation, San Diego, CA 
    for an after-school science education program, which may 
    include equipment and technology..........................   200,000
Arab City School District, Arab, AL for an education 
    technology initiative, including purchase of equipment....   150,000
Army Heritage Center Foundation, Carlisle, PA, for history 
    education programs........................................   100,000
Auburn Joint Vocational School District, Concord Township, OH 
    for curriculum development................................   250,000
AVANCE, Inc., Austin, TX for parenting education programs.....   350,000
AVANCE, Inc., El Paso, TX for a parenting education program...   250,000
AVANCE, Inc., Waco, TX for a family literacy program..........   100,000
Avant-Garde Learning Foundation, Anchorage, AK, for 
    educational activities....................................   500,000
Babyland Family Services, Inc., Newark, NJ for an early 
    childhood education program...............................   400,000
Baltimore City Public Schools, Baltimore MD to establish 
    alternative education programs for academically-challenged 
    students, which may include equipment and technology......   500,000
Bay Point Schools, Inc., Miami, FL for a boarding school for 
    at-risk students..........................................   400,000
Best Buddies Florida, Orlando, FL for mentoring programs in 
    the 4th Congressional District for elementary and 
    secondary school students with disabilities...............   250,000
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Alaska, Anchorage, AK, for a 
    mentoring demonstration project...........................   100,000
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh, Inc., 
    Pittsburgh, PA, for mentoring programs....................   100,000
Billings Public Schools, Billings, MT, for career training in 
    construction technology, including the purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Bloomfield Board of Education, Bloomfield, NJ to provide 
    alternative education for academically-challenged students   300,000
Boise State University, Boise, ID for the Idaho SySTEMic 
    Solution program..........................................   400,000
Boys and Girls Club of Truckee Meadows, Reno, NV, to develop 
    an Internet safety program in schools.....................   175,000
Brehm Preparatory School, Carbondale, IL, to support the 
    development of a national database for learning 
    disabilities education and research at Brehm Prep School..   250,000
Brockton Area Private Industry Council, Inc., Brockton, MA, 
    for workforce development programs for at-risk youth......   100,000
Bushnell, Hartford, CT, for the PARTNERS Art Education Program   100,000
Caddo Parish School Board, Shreveport, LA, for equipment and 
    technology upgrades.......................................   100,000
Calcasieu Parish School Board, Lake Charles, LA, for equipment 
    and technology upgrades...................................   100,000
California State University, Northridge, CA for teacher 
    training and professional development.....................   400,000
Capeverdean American Community Development, Pawtucket, RI for 
    after-school, tutoring, and literacy programs.............   100,000
Carnegie Hall, New York, NY for music education programs......   300,000
Center for Rural Development, Somerset, KY for the Forward in 
    the Fifth literacy program................................   500,000
CentroNia, Takoma Park, MD, to expand pre-K services and train 
    early education teachers..................................   500,000
Charter School Development Foundation, Las Vegas, NV for an 
    early childhood education program.........................   400,000
Chicago Public Schools, Chicago, IL, to provide professional 
    development to upper elementary and middle school science 
    teachers..................................................   300,000
Chicago Youth Centers, Chicago, IL for the ABC Youth Center 
    after-school program, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   200,000
Childhelp, Inc., Scottsdale, AZ to develop a comprehensive 
    update to the Good Touch Bad Touch curriculum in 
    conjunction with the Monique Burr Foundation, 
    Jacksonville, FL..........................................   250,000
Children's Home of Easton, PA, for tutoring and mentoring at-
    risk youth during summer..................................   125,000
Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA for an 
    outreach program to encourage minorities to consider 
    health care careers.......................................   250,000
Children's Literacy Initiative, Philadelphia, PA for its 
    literacy program..........................................   200,000
Choice Thru Education, Inc., Chelsea, MA for educational and 
    career development programs for at-risk youth.............   100,000
City of Bell, CA for an after-school program, which may 
    include equipment and technology..........................   200,000
City of Fairfield, CA for an after-school and job-skills 
    training program..........................................   350,000
City of La Habra, CA for the Young at Art program.............   148,000
City of Los Angeles, CA, for the LA's BEST after-school 
    enrichment program........................................   900,000
City of Newark, CA for an after-school program................    50,000
City of Prestonsburg, KY for an arts education initiative.....   200,000
City of Racine, WI, for an after-school and summer program for 
    children and their parents................................   200,000
City of Vernonia School District, Vernonia, OR, for technology 
    and equipment.............................................   150,000
City School District of New Rochelle, New Rochelle, NY for 
    after-school programs.....................................   297,000
City Year New Hampshire, Stratham, NH, to expand education and 
    youth development programs................................   254,000
City Year Rhode Island, Providence, RI, for a school-based 
    initiative to improve the conditions that lead to student 
    success and increase the graduation rate..................   100,000
Clark County School District, Las Vegas, NV, to create a 
    school for highly gifted students.........................   600,000
Clark County School District, Las Vegas, NV, to expand 
    instructional support for English-language learners.......   600,000
Cleveland Municipal School District, Cleveland, OH, to improve 
    math and language skills through music education..........   100,000
Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning, 
    Chicago, IL for social and emotional learning curriculum 
    development and implementation in the Youngstown, Niles, 
    and/or Warren City, OH school districts...................   900,000
College Success Foundation, Issaquah, WA for its academic 
    support and mentoring programs, which may include 
    equipment and technology..................................   400,000
Columbia Springs Environmental Education Center, Vancouver, 
    WA, to expand a summer school program that prepares high 
    school students to pursue postsecondary education and 
    green careers, including the purchase of equipment........   100,000
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School 
    Systems, Saipan, MP for its Refaluwasch and Chamorro 
    language programs.........................................   250,000
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School 
    Systems, Saipan, MP for the purchase of books and 
    educational materials.....................................   100,000
Communities in Schools--Northeast Texas c/o Northeast Texas 
    Community College, Mt. Pleasant, TX for dropout prevention 
    programs..................................................   200,000
Communities-in-Schools, Bell-Coryell Counties Inc., Killeen, 
    TX for the Youngest Victims of War project................   250,000
Connecticut Technical High School System, Middletown, CT for 
    equipment for Eli Whitney Technical High School's 
    Manufacturing Technology Program..........................   350,000
Connecticut Technical High School System, Middletown, CT for 
    equipment for Vinal Technical High School's Manufacturing 
    Technology Program........................................   250,000
Contra Costa Child Care Council, Concord, CA for an early 
    childhood education program...............................   150,000
Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 10, Chippewa Falls, 
    WI for after-school programs..............................   300,000
Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 11, Turtle Lake, WI 
    for after-school programs.................................   400,000
Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 12, Ashland, WI for 
    after-school programs.....................................   400,000
Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 9, Tomahawk, WI for 
    after-school programs.....................................   300,000
Corpus Christi Independent School District, Corpus Christi, TX 
    for its South Texas School Literacy Project...............   200,000
County of Alachua, FL for after-school programming............   250,000
County of Butte, Oroville, CA, for the Literacy is for 
    Everyone family literacy program..........................   150,000
Creative Visions, Des Moines, IA, for a dropout prevention 
    program...................................................   200,000
Cullman County Schools, Cullman, AL for a mobile laboratory 
    initiative, including purchase of equipment...............   150,000
Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners, Cleveland, OH 
    for an early childhood education program..................   100,000
Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch, Minot, ND, for an elementary 
    school program that targets high-risk students............   475,000
Darden School Foundation, Charlottesville, VA, to improve 
    rural, chronically low-performing schools in southwest 
    Virginia..................................................   150,000
Davidson Academy of Nevada, Reno, NV, for math and science 
    curriculum development....................................   400,000
Delaware Department of Education, Dover, DE for a school 
    leadership initiative.....................................   250,000
Delaware Department of Technology and Information, Dover, DE, 
    to improve Internet access to Delaware schools, including 
    the purchase of equipment.................................   100,000
Delta Arts Alliance, Inc., Drew, MS, for arts education and 
    curriculum development....................................   100,000
Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for music education in 
    rural areas...............................................   300,000
Des Moines Public Schools, Des Moines, IA, to expand pre-
    kindergarten programs.....................................   750,000
Devereux Center for Effective Schools, King of Prussia, PA for 
    the School-wide Positive Behavioral Support program.......   100,000
East Los Angeles Classic Theater, Los Angeles, CA for an arts 
    education program.........................................   150,000
East Side Community Learning Center Foundation, Wilmington, 
    DE, to support supplemental education and enrichment 
    programs for high-needs students..........................   100,000
East Whittier City School District, Whittier, CA for support 
    services for at-risk students, which may include equipment 
    and technology............................................   225,000
Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, Somerset, KY for environmental 
    education programs........................................   250,000
Eden Housing, Hayward, CA for a technology training program, 
    which may include equipment and technology................   100,000
Education Service Center, Region 12, Hillsboro, TX for a GEAR 
    UP college preparation program............................    70,000
Enrichment Services Program, Inc., Columbus, GA for after-
    school tutoring and GED programs for at-risk youth........   100,000
Evansville Vanderburgh School Corporation, Evansville, IN, for 
    education programs including equipment....................   100,000
Falcon School district 49, Falcon, CO, to support a science, 
    technology, engineering and math [STEM] education program.   100,000
FAME, Inc., Wilmington, DE, to prepare minority students for 
    college and encourage them to pursue careers in science, 
    engineering, and math.....................................   125,000
Family, Inc., Council Bluffs, IA, to support a home visitation 
    program for young children and their families.............   400,000
Farrell Area School District, Farrell, PA for education 
    enrichment programs, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   200,000
Fayette County Schools, Lexington, KY for a foreign language 
    program................................................... 2,500,000
Five County Regional Vocational System, Tamms, IL for 
    education support services for at-risk students...........    50,000
Franklin County Schools, Russellville, AL for an education 
    technology initiative, including purchase of equipment....   935,000
Franklin McKinley School District, San Jose, CA for an 
    academic enrichment and college preparation program, which 
    may include equipment and technology......................   180,000
Girls Incorporated of Alameda County, San Leandro, CA for a 
    literacy program for young girls, which may include 
    equipment and software....................................   250,000
Glenwood School for Boys and Girls, West Campus, St. Charles, 
    IL for an assessment and evaluation system, which may 
    include software and technology...........................   100,000
Golden Apple Foundation, Chicago, IL, to recruit and train 
    math and science teachers through summer institutes across 
    Illinois..................................................   350,000
Governors State University, University Park, IL for early 
    childhood education and after-school programs.............   200,000
Grand County School District, Moab, UT, for career and 
    technical education programs including the purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
Harambee Institute, St. Louis, MO for an after-school arts 
    education program, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   325,000
Harcum College, Bryn Mawr, PA for a science, technology, 
    engineering and math education initiative, including 
    purchase of equipment.....................................   243,000
Harford County, Belair, MD, for a science, technology, 
    engineering and math education program, including the 
    purchase of equipment.....................................   400,000
Hawaii Department of Education, Honolulu, HI for its 
    Assistance to Low Performing Schools Project, which may 
    include equipment and technology..........................   700,000
Hazleton Area School District, Hazleton, PA for curriculum 
    development, equipment and technology.....................   300,000
Helen Keller International, New York, NY for the Child Sight 
    Vision Screening Program and to provide eyeglasses to 
    children whose educational performance may be hindered 
    because of poor vision.................................... 1,200,000
Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District, 
    Highland Falls, NY for science education, which may 
    include equipment and technology..........................   800,000
Highline School District, Burien, WA for Aviation High School, 
    which may include equipment and technology................   335,000
Homeless Children's Education Fund, Pittsburgh, PA, for after-
    school programs...........................................   100,000
Hope Through Housing Foundation, Rancho Cucamonga, CA, for an 
    academic tutoring and enrichment initiative...............   350,000
I Won't Cheat Foundation, Salt Lake City, UT, for an anti-
    steroid education program and awareness campaign..........   250,000
Indiana State University, Terre Haute, IN, for curriculum 
    development and teacher training..........................   100,000
Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, Ft. Wayne, IN 
    for the Strategic Languages Institute.....................   260,000
Indianapolis Public Schools, Indianapolis, IN for education 
    programs including equipment and technology...............   600,000
Inquiry Facilitators Inc., Bernalillo, NM, for facilitating 
    student and teacher involvement in a robotics competition.   200,000
Institute for Advanced Learning and Research, Danville, VA for 
    an environmental education program, which may include 
    equipment and technology..................................   200,000
Institute for Student Achievement, Lake Success, NY for a 
    school retention and completion initiative at Point 
    Coupee, Louisiana Central Prep High School................   150,000
Iowa Association of School Boards, Des Moines, IA, for 
    continuation and expansion of the SKILLS Iowa program..... 3,550,000
Iowa Department of Education, Des Moines, IA, to continue the 
    Harkin Grant program...................................... 7,287,000
Iowa State Education Association, Des Moines, IA, to educate 
    teachers and students on international trade..............   133,000
Irwin County Schools, Ocilla, GA to purchase textbooks........   100,000
Ishpeming Public Schools, Ishpeming, MI, to provide wiring and 
    technology upgrades.......................................   100,000
Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, for education programs 
    including the purchase of equipment.......................   100,000
Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, for Mississippi 
    Learning Institute to improve reading and literacy 
    instruction...............................................   500,000
Jawonio, Inc., New York, NY for educational support services 
    for students with disabilities............................   118,000
Jazz at Lincoln Center, New York, NY for music education 
    programs..................................................   800,000
JFYNetworks, Boston, MA, for the expansion of math, science, 
    and language arts educational programs....................   150,000
Jobs for Arizona's Graduates, Inc., Scottsdale, AZ for dropout 
    prevention and after-school programs......................   150,000
Joplin R-VIII School District, Joplin, MO for an education 
    technology initiative, including purchase of equipment....   100,000
Jumpstart for Young Children, Inc., Boston, MA, for expanding 
    the Jumpstart Connecticut mentoring program...............   100,000
Kanawha County Schools, Charleston, WV, for the continuation 
    and expansion of Skills West Virginia.....................   500,000
Kauai Economic Development Board, Lihue, HI, for science, 
    technology, engineering and math education................   700,000
KNME-TV, Albuquerque, NM for the Ready to Learn program.......    50,000
Labor of Love Performing Arts Academy, Chicago, IL for an 
    after-school arts program.................................   400,000
Lafourche Parish School Board, Thibodaux, LA, for equipment 
    and tech upgrades.........................................   100,000
Laurinburg Institute, Laurinburg, NC for its math, science, 
    technology and engineering program........................   400,000
Leadership Excellence, Inc., Oakland, CA for a mentoring 
    program for at-risk youth.................................   250,000
Leadership, Education and Athletics in Partnership, Inc., New 
    Haven, CT for its after-school and mentoring programs.....   300,000
Lee Pesky Learning Center, Boise, ID for the Idaho Early 
    Literacy Project, which may include the purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   350,000
Leon County Schools, Tallahassee, FL for its gifted and 
    talented enrichment program...............................   350,000
Literacy Council of West Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for a 
    literacy program..........................................   250,000
Little Black Pearl Art and Design Center, Chicago, IL for an 
    after-school arts program.................................   300,000
LOOKBOTHWAYS, Port Townsend, WA for development of an internet 
    safety curriculum.........................................   500,000
Los Alamos National Lab Foundation, Espanola, NM, for 
    recruitment and training of math and science teachers.....   100,000
Los Angeles Universal Preschool, Los Angeles, CA, to expand a 
    preschool and teacher training program....................   150,000
Lyon County School District, Yerington, NV, to expand distance 
    education, including professional development and the 
    purchase of equipment.....................................   350,000
Maspeth Town Hall, Inc., Maspeth, NY for after-schools 
    programs for at-risk youth in Queens, NY..................   150,000
Massachusetts 2020, Boston, MA, for the continued development 
    of an extended learning time initiative...................   200,000
Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, for engaging girls 
    and historically underrepresented students in science, 
    technology, engineering and math education................   800,000
Meeting Street, Providence, RI for an early childhood 
    education program.........................................   900,000
Memphis City Schools, Memphis, TN for an after-school program.   500,000
Merced County Association of Governments, Merced, CA to 
    develop a college preparatory program at Buhach Colony 
    High School...............................................   425,000
Meskwaki Settlement School, Sac & Fox Tribe of the Mississippi 
    in Iowa, Tama, IA, for a culturally based education 
    curriculum................................................   500,000
Michigan City Area Schools, Michigan City, IN for career and 
    technical education programs, which may include equipment 
    and technology............................................   350,000
Millcreek Children Center, Youngstown, OH for an arts 
    education program, which may include equipment............   145,000
Milwaukee Public Schools, Milwaukee, WI for community learning 
    centers...................................................   110,000
Mississippi Building Blocks, Ridgeland, MS, for establishment 
    of a state-wide early childhood literacy program..........   500,000
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, for 
    economic education in K-12 settings.......................   200,000
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, for 
    enhancing K-12 science and mathematics preparation........   100,000
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, for the 
    development of an early childhood teacher education 
    delivery system...........................................   750,000
Mississippi University for Women, Columbus, MS, for expansion 
    of educational outreach for at-risk youth.................   550,000
Mississippi University for Women, Columbus, MS, for Science 
    and Mathematics on the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway.......   200,000
Mississippi Writing/Thinking Institute, Mississippi State, MS, 
    for program development for Mississippi Rural Voices......   200,000
Missouri State University, Springfield, MO for the Missouri 
    Innovation Academy........................................   150,000
Montgomery/Cleveland Avenue YMCA, Montgomery, AL, for after-
    school and weekend programs...............................   100,000
National Braille Press, Boston, MA, for the development and 
    deployment of portable Braille devices for blind school-
    aged children.............................................   200,000
National Center for Electronically Mediated Learning, Inc., 
    Milford, CT for the P.E.B.B.L.E.S. Project, which may 
    include equipment.........................................   150,000
National Council of La Raza, Washington, DC, to improve the 
    quality and availability of early childhood education.....   500,000
National Network of Digital Schools Management Foundation, 
    Beaver, PA for the development of an online education 
    program, which may include equipment and technology.......   500,000
New Haven Reads Community Book Bank, Inc., New Haven, CT for 
    its after-school tutoring program.........................   200,000
New York Hall of Science, Queens, NY, for a teacher training 
    program...................................................   600,000
North Carolina Mentoring Partnership, Raleigh, NC, for 
    mentoring at-risk youth...................................   100,000
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC for a children's 
    engineering and technological literacy program............   100,000
North River Commission, Chicago, IL for after-school 
    enrichment programs in Chicago public schools located in 
    the North River Commission area...........................   100,000
North Rockland Central School District, Garnerville, NY for an 
    English literacy program, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   297,000
Northern Rockies Educational Services (NRES), Missoula, MT for 
    the Taking Technology to the Classroom initiative, 
    including purchase of equipment...........................   300,000
Nye County School District, Pahrump, NV, to improve science 
    programs in rural middle schools, including the purchase 
    of laboratory equipment...................................   425,000
Ogden City School District, Ogden, UT for a teacher training 
    initiative, including purchase of equipment...............   250,000
Ohio Appalachian Center for Higher Education, Portsmouth, OH, 
    to prepare students for careers and educational 
    opportunities in science, technology, math and engineering   100,000
Ohio University, Athens, OH for its Southeast Ohio Center for 
    Excellence in Mathematics and Science.....................   100,000
Old Bridge Township Public Schools, Matawan, NJ for equipment 
    and technology............................................   200,000
Orange County Department of Education, Costa Mesa, CA for an 
    Internet safety training program..........................   400,000
Orchestra Iowa Music Education, Cedar Rapids, IA, to support a 
    music education program...................................   400,000
Orem City, UT, for curriculum expansion including the purchase 
    of equipment..............................................   100,000
Ossining Union Free School District, Ossining, NY for after-
    school and mentoring initiatives..........................   297,000
Ouachita Parish School Board, Monroe, LA for programming at 
    the Northeast Louisiana Family Literacy Interagency 
    Consortium................................................   400,000
Pacific Islands Center for Educational Development, Pago Pago, 
    American Samoa, for program development...................   500,000
Palisades Park School District, Palisades Park, NJ for its 
    after-school homework program, which may include 
    technology and equipment..................................   150,000
Palm Beach County School District, West Palm Beach, FL for a 
    mentoring program.........................................   300,000
Parents as Teachers of Lake County, Inc., Hammond, IN for 
    family literacy services..................................   100,000
Pasadena Educational Foundation, Pasadena, CA for its Early 
    College High School initiative............................   100,000
Peaceable Kingdom Retreat for Children, Inc., Killeen, TX for 
    educational programming...................................   255,000
Pegasus Players, Chicago, IL for an arts education program....   100,000
Piney Woods School, Piney Woods, MS, for science and 
    technology curriculum development.........................   150,000
Polk County Public Schools, Bartow, FL for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   150,000
Polynesian Voyaging Society, Honolulu, HI, for educational 
    programs..................................................   300,000
Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District, Port Chester, NY 
    for after-school, tutoring, or other activities to 
    implement full service community schools..................   297,000
Project Cornerstone, San Jose, CA for education and enrichment 
    activities................................................   226,000
Project HOME, Philadelphia, PA, for after-school programs.....   100,000
Prospera Initiatives, Inc., Annandale, VA for a mentoring 
    program...................................................   200,000
Resource Area For Teachers, San Jose, CA for teacher training 
    and professional development..............................   200,000
Rio Rancho Public Schools, Rio Rancho, NM for teacher training 
    and professional development, which may include equipment 
    and technology............................................   250,000
River Region Multicultural Chamber of Commerce, La Place, LA 
    for after-school and summer academic enrichment programs..   300,000
River Rouge School District, River Rouge, MI for transitional 
    services and workforce training for youth, which may 
    include equipment and technology..........................   200,000
Riverside Unified School District, Riverside, CA for a 
    science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
    initiative, including curriculum development and purchase 
    of equipment..............................................   325,000
Rockdale County Public Schools, Conyers, GA for its AVID/
    Advanced Placement program................................   300,000
Rockdale County Public Schools, Conyers, GA to establish year-
    round Pre-K programs, which may include expenses for 
    tuition, transportation, and meals........................   400,000
Rodel Foundation of Delaware, Wilmington, DE for the Delaware 
    Parent Leadership Institute...............................   150,000
San Antonio Youth Centers, San Antonio, TX for after-school 
    programs, which may include equipment and technology......   200,000
San Jose Unified School District, San Jose, CA for a 
    longitudinal data system..................................   250,000
Save the Children, Albuquerque, NM, for a New Mexico rural 
    literacy and after-school program.........................   150,000
Save the Children, Fernley, NV, to expand the Nevada Rural 
    Literacy Program, including the purchase of equipment.....   250,000
Save the Children, Washington, DC, for after-school programs 
    in Mississippi............................................   100,000
Save the Children, Westport, CT for a literacy program........   100,000
Save the Children, Westport, CT for a rural literacy program 
    in Washington, St. Martin, and/or Tangipahoa parishes, 
    which may include equipment and technology................   300,000
School District of Cheltenham Township, Elkins Park, PA for a 
    dual enrollment program, which may include expenses for 
    tuition and textbooks.....................................    50,000
Seattle Public Schools, Seattle, WA for a language immersion 
    program...................................................   200,000
Seattle Science Foundation, Seattle, WA, to expand a hands-on 
    medical science program for elementary school students....   150,000
Self Enhancement, Inc., Portland, OR for a mentoring and 
    academic enrichment program...............................   525,000
Semos Unlimited, Santa Fe, NM, to develop and produce Hispanic 
    learning materials........................................   100,000
Shodor Education Foundation, Inc., Durham, NC for its 
    Computing Mentoring Academic Transitions through 
    Experience, Research, and Service initiative..............   200,000
Signature Theatre, Arlington, VA for an arts education program   500,000
Sisters In Struggle, Hempstead, NY for a life-skills program 
    for at-risk youth, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   200,000
Somerset Hills School District, Bernardsville, NJ for the 
    Cultural Tolerance Education initiative...................   312,000
South Berkshire Educational Collaborative, Great Barrington, 
    MA for educational enrichment and professional development 
    activities................................................   250,000
South Carolina Governor's School for Science and Mathematics 
    Foundation, Columbia, SC for academic enrichment programs 
    in science, mathematics, engineering and technology.......   275,000
South Salt Lake City, UT, to establish education programs to 
    expand ESL classes at the Villa Franche apartment complex.   100,000
Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven, CT for its 
    Autism Center for Excellence..............................   300,000
Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, OK for 
    purchase of equipment.....................................   350,000
Southwestern University, Georgetown, TX for a summer college 
    preparatory program.......................................   443,000
Special Olympics 2010 USA National Games, Lincoln, NE to 
    support the 2010 Special Olympics National Games..........   350,000
Springboard for Improving Schools, San Francisco, CA for 
    teacher training and professional development in one or 
    more school districts in the 20th Congressional district..   150,000
Springboard for Improving Schools, San Francisco, CA for the 
    Improving Student Achievement in the Palmdale, CA 
    Elementary School District program........................   150,000
Springboard Schools, San Francisco, CA for teacher training 
    and professional development in the Santa Ana Unified 
    School District...........................................   150,000
Sunrise Children's Foundation, Las Vegas, NV, for early 
    childhood education services..............................   300,000
Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, to expand an after-school 
    program and extended learning initiative..................   400,000
Tarrytown Union Free School District, Tarrytown, NY for 
    programs for at-risk youth................................   297,000
Terrebonne Parish School Board, Houma, LA, for equipment and 
    technology upgrades.......................................   100,000
Texas A&M University--Commerce, TX for a science, technology, 
    engineering and math initiative...........................   100,000
Texas State University--San Marcos, TX for the Texas Mathworks 
    initiative................................................   350,000
Toledo GROWs, Toledo, OH for a hands-on science based 
    curriculum in urban areas.................................   300,000
Trimble Local School District, Glouster, OH for an after-
    school program............................................   175,000
Tulsa Public Schools, Tulsa, OK for the Tulsa Academic Center.   350,000
United Way of Miami-Dade, Miami, FL for the Center of 
    Excellence in Early Education, including teacher training 
    programs..................................................   300,000
United Way of Youngstown/Mahoning Valley, Youngstown, OH for 
    an early childhood education program......................   100,000
University of Houston, Houston, TX for teacher training and 
    professional development..................................   400,000
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, for the National Institute 
    for Twice-Exceptionality..................................   165,000
University of Nebraska--Kearney, Kearney, NE for curriculum 
    development...............................................   350,000
University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA, for supporting and 
    developing charter and district-run public schools in New 
    Orleans through teacher education, leadership preparation, 
    applied research and policy, in cooperation with Tulane 
    University................................................   150,000
University of North Carolina at Greensboro, Greensboro, NC for 
    the ON TRACK mathematics enrichment program...............   165,000
University of North Florida, Jacksonville, FL for the Virtual 
    School Readiness Incubator................................   250,000
University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA, for developing a 
    center on early childhood education.......................   750,000
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for 
    gifted education programs at the Frances Karnes Center for 
    Gifted Studies............................................   200,000
Upper Palmetto YMCA, Rock Hill, SC for an environmental 
    education program, which may include equipment and 
    technology................................................   225,000
Urban Assembly New York Harbor High School, Brooklyn, NY, for 
    a marine science and marine technology program............   150,000
USD 353, Wellington, KS, Public Schools for technology 
    upgrades and teacher training.............................   250,000
USD 373, Newton, Kansas Public Schools for technology upgrades   250,000
USD 402, Augusta, KS Public Schools for technology upgrades...   250,000
USD 446, Independence, KS Public Schools for technology 
    upgrades and teacher training.............................   250,000
USD 470, Arkansas City, KS Public Schools for technology 
    upgrades, professional development and training/technical 
    assistance................................................   250,000
USD 490, Butler County, KS for technology upgrades and teacher 
    training at the El Dorado, KS public school system........   250,000
Utah Valley University, Orem, UT, to establish an 
    entrepreneurship program for high school students.........   250,000
Washoe County School District, Reno, NV, to expand a new 
    teacher mentoring program.................................   500,000
Washoe County School District, Reno, NV, to support 
    instructional coaches for K-12 teachers...................   500,000
Wayne State University, Detroit, MI for its science, 
    engineering, mathematics, aerospace academy...............   300,000
We Care San Jacinto, San Jacinto, CA for an after-school 
    tutoring program..........................................   100,000
Weber State University, Ogden, UT, for teacher education and 
    curriculum development....................................   500,000
West New York Board of Education, West New York, NJ, to launch 
    an alternative fuel education program, including the 
    purchase of equipment.....................................   150,000
West Valley City, UT, to expand an at-risk youth after-school 
    program...................................................   100,000
Western Oklahoma State College, Altus, OK for purchase of 
    equipment.................................................   100,000
WhizKids Foundation, Inc., Cambridge, MA, to expand math, 
    science, and engineering programs for primary school 
    students..................................................   100,000
Wings of Eagles, Horseheads, NY for a Regional Science, 
    Technological, Engineering, and Math Academy..............   275,000
YMCA Espanola Teen Center, Los Alamos, NM, to provide academic 
    and enrichment support for at-risk youth..................   125,000
YMCA of Warren, Warren, OH for an after-school program........   100,000
Yonkers Public Schools, Yonkers, NY for Saturday academies, 
    music education, and teacher professional development 
    activities................................................   297,000
YWCA of the Harbor Area and South Bay, San Pedro, CA for an 
    early childhood education program.........................   300,000

                    State Fiscal Stabilization Fund

      The conference agreement does not include funding for the 
State Fiscal Stabilization Fund as proposed by the Senate. The 
House proposed $3,000,000 for this purpose.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

      The conference agreement includes $393,053,000 for Safe 
Schools and Citizenship Education instead of $395,753,000 as 
proposed by the House and $438,061,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes funding for the 
following National activities:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Budget activity                               House          Senate        Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Improving School Culture and Climate............................     $50,000,000     $81,000,000     $48,300,000
School Emergency Preparedness Initiative (including $7,000,000        40,000,000      40,000,000      40,000,000
 for institutes of higher education)............................
Safe Schools/Healthy Students...................................      77,816,000      77,816,000      77,816,000
Student Drug Testing............................................       7,839,000       7,839,000       7,839,000
Postsecondary Education Drug and Violence Prevention (including        5,409,000       8,017,000       5,409,000
 $843,000 for the recognition program)..........................
Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking (STOP Act)..........       2,500,000               0       2,500,000
Project SERV....................................................       2,000,000               0               0
Other Activities................................................       9,477,000      10,306,000       9,477,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement includes $48,300,000 for a 
School Culture and Climate initiative to support new approaches 
to helping schools foster safe, secure, and drug-free learning 
environments instead of $50,000,000 as proposed by the House 
and $81,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. These funds will 
support new competitive grant awards in two areas: (1) reducing 
the number of suspensions and expulsions related to student 
disruptive behavior and nonviolent offenses, and (2) reducing 
violent crime in schools, on school grounds, and on the way to 
and from school. Within the funding for this initiative, the 
conferees have included $8,212,000 to fund all existing 
character education projects through the end of their grant 
cycle. It is the intent of the conferees that the new School 
Culture and Climate initiative include character education.
      The conference agreement includes $40,000,000 for the 
School and College Emergency Preparedness initiative, including 
$7,000,000 for assistance to institutions of higher education 
as proposed by both the House and Senate. Together with 
$2,237,000 provided under the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration (SAMHSA), a total of $42,237,000 will 
be available for this initiative.
      The conferees concur that the Department shall use 
$830,000 within the amount provided for Safe and Drug-Free 
Schools and Communities National Programs to identify, and 
provide recognition of, promising and model alcohol and drug 
abuse prevention and education programs in higher education as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not specify a funding 
amount for this activity.
      For the Carol M. White Physical Education Program, the 
conferees concur that the Department shall incorporate the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's School Health 
Index into the program as proposed by the House. The Senate did 
not propose similar report language. The Department shall grant 
priority to those applications that have completed physical 
education and nutrition assessments as part of the school 
health index or propose to implement the index. Awards should 
support the implementation of science-based curriculum tools to 
encourage physical education and healthy eating.
      Within the funds provided for the Civic Education 
program, the conference agreement includes $21,617,000 for the 
We the People programs, including $2,957,000 to continue the 
comprehensive program to improve public knowledge, 
understanding, and support of American democratic institutions, 
which is a cooperative project among the Center for Civic 
Education, the Center on Congress at Indiana University, and 
the Trust for Representative Democracy at the National 
Conference of State Legislatures as proposed by the House 
instead of $20,076,000 as proposed by the Senate. The remaining 
$13,383,000 will support the Cooperative Education Exchange 
program, including awards to the Center for Civic Education and 
the National Council on Economic Education.

                      English Language Acquisition

      The conference agreement includes $750,000,000 for 
English Language Acquisition as proposed by the Senate instead 
of $760,000,000 as proposed by the House.

                           Special Education

      The conference agreement includes $12,587,035,000 for 
Special Education instead of $12,579,677,000 as proposed by the 
House and $12,587,856,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement provides $3,994,652,000 in fiscal year 
2010 and $8,592,383,000 in fiscal year 2011 funding for this 
account. In addition, the conference agreement includes bill 
language clarifying that Part B and Part C funds appropriated 
in the Recovery Act shall not be considered for the purpose of 
calculating Special Education State allocations for fiscal year 
2010 and succeeding years. Neither the House nor the Senate 
proposed a similar provision.
      Within the funds provided for Technology and Media 
Services, the conferees concur that $737,000 is available for 
the Reading Rockets program, administered by the Greater 
Washington Educational Television Association. No funding was 
proposed by the House for this activity and $1,500,000 was 
proposed by the Senate.

            Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

      The conference agreement includes $3,506,861,000 for 
Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research instead of 
$3,504,305,000 as proposed by the House and $3,507,322,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement includes bill 
language that excludes the appropriation for the Centers for 
Independent Living program in the Recovery Act from the 
determination under section 723 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
whether a State may administer funds for the Centers for 
Independent Living program in that State in fiscal year 2010.
Demonstration and Training Programs
      The conference agreement includes $5,095,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

        Project                                                   Amount
AbilityFirst, Pasadena, CA for programs to provide employment 
    assistance for individuals with disabilities..............   100,000
American Federation for the Blind Technology and Employment 
    Center, Huntington, WV, to expand the capacity of the AFB-
    TECH center for development of technology for the blind... 1,000,000
Best Buddies Maryland, Baltimore, MD for mentoring programs 
    for persons with intellectual disabilities................   300,000
Best Buddies Massachusetts, Boston, MA for mentoring programs 
    in the 8th Congressional district for persons with 
    intellectual disabilities.................................    70,000
Best Buddies Virginia, Falls Church, VA for mentoring programs 
    for persons with intellectual disabilities................   250,000
Best Buddies San Francisco, CA for mentoring programs for 
    persons with intellectual disabilities....................   250,000
Camp High Hopes, Sioux City, IA, for a year-round camp for 
    children with disabilities................................   300,000
Deaf Blind Service Center, Seattle, WA, for training programs 
    and materials for support service providers who assist 
    deaf blind individuals with employment and independent 
    living....................................................   200,000
Elwyn, Inc., Aston, PA, for job training and education 
    programs for individuals with disabilities................   100,000
Enable America, Inc., Tampa, FL, for civic/citizenship 
    demonstration project for disabled adults.................   600,000
Intellectual Disabilities Education Association, Inc., 
    Bridgeport, CT, for IDEA Learning Center programming......   225,000
Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL for a training 
    program to prepare instructors to work with visually 
    impaired veterans, which may include scholarships.........   600,000
Opportunity Enterprises, Inc., Valparaiso, IN for its adult 
    day program, which may include equipment..................   150,000
Southern California Rehabilitation Services, Downey, CA for 
    computer and Internet training for individuals with 
    disabilities, which may include equipment.................   100,000
Southside Training, Employment and Placement Services, Inc., 
    Farmville, VA for training, employment services, and 
    placement assistance for persons with disabilities, which 
    may include equipment.....................................   300,000
Special Olympics of Rhode Island, Warwick, RI for delivering 
    programs and promoting physical fitness among individuals 
    with disabilities.........................................   200,000
Supporting Autism and Families Everywhere, Wilkes-Barre, PA, 
    for vocational services and program support...............   100,000
Vocational Guidance Services--Painesville Center, Painesville, 
    OH for the Training Enhancements Promoting Jobs for 
    Ohioans with Disabilities project.........................   100,000
Wisconsin Coalition of Independent Living Centers, Inc., 
    Madison, WI for its Increase Vets' Independence Initiative 
    to provide independent living services to disabled 
    veterans..................................................   150,000

      For the National Institute on Disability and 
Rehabilitation Research, the conferees note that the budget 
request included $3,000,000 to support demonstrations of 
promising models to serve students with intellectual 
disabilities in higher education. Instead, the conferees 
provide $11,000,000 for Model Comprehensive Transition and 
Postsecondary Programs for Students with Intellectual 
Disabilities, as authorized in the Higher Education Act, within 
the Higher Education account.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 AMERICAN PRINTING HOUSE FOR THE BLIND

      The conference agreement includes $24,600,000 for the 
American Printing House for the Blind as proposed by the Senate 
instead of $22,599,000 as proposed by the House.

                          GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY

      The conference agreement includes $123,000,000 for 
Gallaudet University instead of $120,000,000 as proposed by the 
House and $126,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement includes bill language designating 
$5,000,000 of this amount for construction and provides that 
the funds are available until expended.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

      The conference agreement includes $2,016,447,000 for 
Career, Technical, and Adult Education as proposed by the House 
and $2,018,447,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement provides $1,225,447,000 in fiscal year 2010 funding, 
of which $4,400,000 is available on October 1, 2009 and 
$1,221,047,000 is available on July 1, 2010, and $791,000,000 
in fiscal year 2011 funding for this account.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
specifying $45,907,000 within funds provided for the Adult 
Education State Grants program for distribution to States and 
outlying areas in order to remedy an administrative error in 
prior years as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed 
similar language designating $46,000,000.
      The conference agreement continues the English literacy 
and civics education set-aside within the appropriation for 
Adult Education State Grants. The conferees intend for these 
funds to help States or localities affected significantly by 
immigration to implement integrated English literacy, U.S. 
history, and civics education programs that provide a program 
of instruction designed to help an English language learner 
achieve competence in English through contextualized 
instruction on the rights and responsibilities of citizenship, 
naturalization procedures, civic participation, and United 
States history and government to help such learner acquire the 
skills and knowledge to become an active and informed parent, 
worker, and community member.

                      Student Financial Assistance

                     (INCLUDING DEFERRAL OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $19,296,809,000 for 
Student Financial Assistance as proposed by the Senate instead 
of $19,634,905,000 as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes $17,495,000,000 for the 
Pell Grant program as proposed by the Senate instead of 
$17,783,395,000 as proposed by the House. The funds in this 
conference agreement will support a $4,860 maximum Pell grant 
for the 2010-2011 award year. With the additional funds 
provided under the College Cost Reduction Act and the Recovery 
Act, the total maximum Pell grant will increase to $5,550 for 
the 2010-2011 award year, an increase of $200 over the previous 
award year.
      The conference agreement defers $561,000,000 from 
unobligated balances under the mandatory Academic 
Competitiveness and SMART grants program as proposed by the 
House. The Senate proposed to rescind, rather than defer, these 
funds. These balances are not needed to pay Academic 
Competitiveness and SMART awards in the 2010-2011 award year 
and will partially offset additional costs in the Pell Grant 
program.
      The conferees concur that the Department shall provide 
the same funding in fiscal year 2010 for the Work Colleges 
program authorized under section 448 of the Higher Education 
Act from the Federal Work-Study Program appropriation as 
proposed by the House. The Senate did not propose similar 
report language.

                            Higher Education

      The conference agreement includes $2,255,665,000 for 
Higher Education instead of $2,294,882,000 as proposed by the 
House and $2,106,749,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement includes citations in the bill for title 
VIII of the Higher Education Act (HEA) and part I of subtitle A 
of title VI of the America COMPETES Act as proposed by the 
Senate. The House did not propose using these citations.
Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE)
      Within the amount for FIPSE, the conference agreement 
includes $10,000,000 for the college textbook rental pilot 
initiative as proposed by the House. The Senate did not propose 
a similar provision. The conferees direct that these funds be 
awarded in accordance with section 803(b) through (d) of the 
Higher Education Act. The conferees are interested in projects 
that propose expanding the services of college bookstores to 
offer innovative efforts to increase opportunities for students 
to rent college course materials and lower costs for students. 
These projects may include, but not be limited to, activities 
that: (1) acquire course materials that the entity will make 
available by rent to students, (2) develop or acquire equipment 
or software necessary for the conduct of a rental program, (3) 
place a priority on higher cost and introductory level classes, 
and (4) focus on students with the greatest financial need. The 
conferees direct that the Department provide a briefing to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate not less than 30 days prior to the release of a 
request for proposals.
      Within the amount for FIPSE, $6,000,000 is included for 
grants to institutions of higher education for Centers of 
Excellence for Veteran Student Success, to support veterans, 
particularly those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan as 
proposed by the House. The Senate did not propose a similar 
provision. The conferees direct that these funds be awarded in 
accordance with section 873 of the HEA.
      Within the amount for FIPSE, $1,000,000 is included for 
the Training for Realtime Writers program under section 872 of 
the HEA as proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose 
funding for this program.
      Within the amount for FIPSE, $750,000 is included for the 
Off-campus Community Service program, in accordance with 
section 447 of the HEA. The Senate proposed $1,000,000 and the 
House did not propose a similar provision.
      Within the amount for FIPSE, $28,822,000 is included for 
the Comprehensive Program, for which the conferees direct the 
Department to establish these invitational priorities: centers 
of excellence for teacher preparation as described in section 
242 of the HEA; university sustainability initiatives as 
described in section 881 of HEA; rural development initiatives 
for rural-serving colleges and universities as described in 
section 861 of HEA; initiatives to assist highly qualified 
minorities and women to acquire doctoral degrees in fields 
where they are underrepresented as described in section 807 of 
HEA; modeling and simulation programs as described in section 
891 of HEA; and higher education consortia to design and offer 
interdisciplinary programs that focus on poverty and human 
capability as described in section 741(a)(11) of HEA. The House 
proposed $34,805,000 for the Comprehensive Program, while the 
Senate did not designate a specific amount for this activity.
      As proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement does 
not set aside $1,000,000 in the bill for modeling and 
simulation programs under section 891 of the HEA. The House 
proposed $1,000,000 for these programs. Instead, these programs 
are included as an invitational priority under the FIPSE 
Comprehensive Program.
      The conference agreement includes $101,507,000 for the 
following projects in the following amounts:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Project                              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
AB Christian Learning Center, Ft. Worth, TX for a higher         175,000
 education resource center................................
AIB College of Business, Des Moines, IA, to continue             400,000
 recruiting and training captioners and court reporters
 and to provide scholarships to students..................
Alamo Community College, San Antonio, TX for an associates       200,000
 degree program for air traffic controllers, which may
 include equipment and technology.........................
Albany State University, Albany, GA for a model program to       150,000
 increase the recruitment and retention of
 underrepresented students in postsecondary education.....
Alcorn State University, Alcorn, MS, for graduate level          300,000
 curriculum development...................................
Alexander City Chamber of Commerce Foundation, Alexander         100,000
 City, AL for the Gateway to Education Scholarship
 program, including scholarships..........................
Alverno College, Milwaukee, WI for its Research Center for       100,000
 Women and Girls, which may include equipment.............
Anne Arundel Community College, Hanover, MD for its              350,000
 science, technology, engineering, and math initiative,
 which may include equipment and technology...............
Anoka Ramsey Community College, Coon Rapids, MN for              800,000
 curriculum development in programs relating to the
 medical device manufacturing industry, including purchase
 of equipment.............................................
Armstrong Atlantic State University Cyber Security               457,000
 Research Institute Foundation, Savannah, GA for
 curriculum development, including purchase of equipment..
Asnuntuck Community College, Enfield, CT for a Medical           250,000
 Device Machine Technology Certificate Program, which may
 include equipment and technology.........................
Assumption College, Worcester, MA, for the acquisition of        100,000
 educational equipment and information technology.........
Beloit College, Beloit, WI for college scholarships and          150,000
 college outreach and early awareness programs............
Benedictine University, Lisle, IL, to design, create, and        150,000
 implement open source educational materials for use in
 introductory college courses.............................
Blackburn College, Carlinville, IL, for science education        225,000
 programs and laboratory upgrades, including the purchase
 of equipment.............................................
Blue Mountain College, Blue Mountain, MS, for the purchase       100,000
 of math and science equipment............................
Blue Mountain Community College, Pendleton, OR, to expand        100,000
 post-secondary education including college preparatory,
 advanced degree and continuing education programs........
Brandeis University, Waltham, MA for science and                 350,000
 technology academic programs, which may include equipment
 and technology...........................................
Brazosport College, Galveston, TX for purchase of                200,000
 equipment to be used in the petrochemical and nuclear
 technician training programs.............................
Brazosport College, Lake Jackson, TX for curriculum              380,000
 development..............................................
Brescia University, Owensboro, KY, for education programs        500,000
 including the purchase of equipment......................
Briar Cliff University, Sioux City, IA for purchase of           100,000
 equipment................................................
Buena Vista University, Storm Lake, IA, for support for          200,000
 students with disabilities...............................
Burcham Hills Retirement Community, East Lansing, MI to          200,000
 develop an Alzheimer's and dementia training program,
 including purchase of equipment..........................
Butler Community College, El Dorado, KS for purchase of          500,000
 equipment................................................
Caldwell College, Caldwell, NJ for curriculum development,       550,000
 including purchase of equipment..........................
California Baptist University, Riverside, CA for purchase        300,000
 of equipment.............................................
California State University, Fullerton, CA for curriculum        350,000
 development associated with the Vietnamese language and
 culture program..........................................
California State University, Fullerton, CA for the Center        300,000
 for the Advancement of Teaching and Learning in
 Mathematics and Science..................................
California State University, Sacramento, CA for equipment        350,000
 and technology for science laboratories..................
Campbell University, Buies Creek, NC for an initiative at        300,000
 its School of Pharmacy to train underrepresented
 pharmacists..............................................
Canisius College, Buffalo, NY for its science education          400,000
 program, which may include equipment and technology......
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, for Internet-        100,000
 based foreign language programs..........................
Cedar Crest College, Allentown, PA, for science education        100,000
 programs, including the purchase of equipment............
Center for Empowered Living and Learning, Denver, CO, for        300,000
 an education program on terrorism........................
Central Maine Community College, Auburn, ME for its              150,000
 Veterans to College Initiative to provide academic
 counseling and support to veterans.......................
Centralia College, Centralia, WA for biotechnology and           375,000
 science equipment........................................
Chestnut Hill College, Philadelphia, PA, for the Center          100,000
 for Environmental Sciences and Sustainability............
Cheyney University of Pennsylvania, Cheyney, PA for its          100,000
 Keystone Honors Academy..................................
City College of San Jose, CA for its California                  368,000
 Construction College to train students for careers in
 construction management, which may include equipment.....
Clackamas Community College, Oregon City, OR for education       400,000
 and training programs in renewable energy fields, which
 may include equipment and technology.....................
Clarke College, Dubuque, IA for its Doctor of Nurse              400,000
 Practitioner program, which may include equipment,
 technology and scholarships..............................
Cleveland State University, Cleveland, OH, for supportive        200,000
 services to degree-seeking veterans......................
Coahoma Community College, Clarksdale, MS for curricula,          50,000
 equipment and technology.................................
Coffeyville Community College, Coffeyville, KS for the           500,000
 Native American Center, including purchase of equipment..
College of Southern Idaho, Twin Falls, ID for curriculum         200,000
 development, including the purchase of equipment.........
College of the Canyons, Santa Clarita, CA for the                100,000
 University Center Consortium, including curriculum
 development..............................................
College Opportunity Resources for Education, Philadelphia,       750,000
 PA for college preparation and scholarship assistance....
College Success Foundation, Washington, DC, for mentoring        500,000
 and scholarships.........................................
College Summit-West Virginia, Dunbar, WV for a college           100,000
 access initiative........................................
Colorado State University--Pueblo, Pueblo, CO, for STEM          125,000
 programs, including equipment............................
Columbia College, Columbia, SC for its Masters Degree            200,000
 Program in Divergent Learning............................
Columbus State University, Columbus, GA for a Science,           150,000
 Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) program..........
Command and General Staff College Foundation, Leavenworth,       250,000
 KS, for curriculum and course development for a homeland
 security masters degree program..........................
Community College of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh, PA, to        100,000
 support technical and career postsecondary education
 programs.................................................
Community College of Rhode Island, Warwick, RI, for a            200,000
 transition to college program............................
Community College System of New Hampshire, Concord, NH, to       500,000
 purchase equipment and technology to modernize the
 teaching of nursing......................................
County of Greensville, Emporia, VA, for equipment and            400,000
 technology upgrades at the Southside Virginia Education
 Center...................................................
Creighton University, Omaha, NE for purchase of equipment.       500,000
Dallas County Community College District, Dallas, TX for         300,000
 its Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics
 (STEM) Professions Initiative, which may include
 scholarships.............................................
Dean College, Franklin, MA for its Embedded Study Model          150,000
 Project to integrate academic support services into
 curricula, which may include equipment and technology....
Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for teacher               300,000
 training in science and curriculum development...........
Dickinson State University, Dickinson, ND, for its               600,000
 Theodore Roosevelt Center................................
Donnelly College, Kansas City, KS, for equipment and             200,000
 technology...............................................
Eastern Arizona College, Thatcher, AZ, for the Gila              400,000
 Community College nursing education program, which may
 include equipment and technology.........................
Eastern New Mexico University, Portales, NM, for                 100,000
 educational equipment and technology infrastructure......
Edmonds Community College, Lynwood, WA, for equipment for        600,000
 training programs at its National Advanced Materials and
 Manufacturing Innovation Center..........................
Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the Senate, Boston, MA,       13,602,000
 for program development, which may include equipment,
 technology, and support for an endowment.................
Elgin Community College, Elgin, IL, for the Health Careers       100,000
 Center of Excellence, including curriculum development
 and purchase of equipment................................
Emerson College, Boston, MA, for educational equipment and       250,000
 technology infrastructure................................
Emmanuel College, Boston, MA, for educational equipment          200,000
 and technology infrastructure to support the Center for
 Science Education........................................
Endicott College, Beverly, MA, for educational equipment         150,000
 and technology infrastructure............................
Evergreen State College, Olympia, WA, for its Curriculum         325,000
 for the Bioregion initiative.............................
Fairleigh Dickenson University, Madison, NJ, for                 500,000
 curriculum development, including purchase of equipment..
Florida Gulf Coast University, Ft. Myers, FL, for the            350,000
 Coastal Watershed Institute..............................
Ft. Hays State University, Hays, KS, for purchase of             250,000
 equipment................................................
Fulton-Montgomery Community College, Johnstown, NY, to           200,000
 establish a Center for Engineering and Technology........
Gadsden State Community College, Gadsden, AL, for                100,000
 technology upgrades......................................
George C. Wallace Community College, Dothan, AL, for             200,000
 equipment and technology to train energy technicians for
 nuclear facilities.......................................
Goodwin College, East Hartford, CT, for an environmental         175,000
 studies program..........................................
Gordon College, Wenham, MA, for educational equipment and        200,000
 technology infrastructure................................
Grace College and Theological Seminary, Winona Lake, IN,         150,000
 for curriculum development, including purchase of
 equipment................................................
Harrisburg University of Science and Technology,                 400,000
 Harrisburg, PA, for curriculum development and for
 laboratory upgrades, including the purchase of equipment
 and technology...........................................
Hawaii Community College, Hilo, HI, for supportive               500,000
 services and classroom courses to prepare students
 unprepared for postsecondary education...................
Hill College, Hillsboro, TX, for vocational training at          200,000
 the Bosque County campus, which may include equipment and
 technology...............................................
Huntingdon College, Montgomery, AL, for teacher training..       100,000
Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX for a math and           350,000
 science education initiative.............................
Hutchinson Community College, Hutchinson, KS, for purchase       250,000
 of equipment.............................................
Illinois Community College Trustee Association,                  600,000
 Springfield, IL, for the Illinois Community College
 Sustainability Network to promote and provide energy
 education and sustainable practices......................
Iowa Lakes Community College, Estherville, IA, for a             400,000
 training program in construction technology and wind
 turbine technology, including equipment..................
Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown, IA,        165,000
 for purchase of equipment................................
Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown, IA,        400,000
 for a training program in agricultural and renewable
 energy technology, including the purchase of equipment...
Itawamba Community College, Fulton, MS, for consolidation        700,000
 of the Tupelo and Fulton Nursing School Programs in order
 to provide additional nursing specialists to a five-
 county region............................................
Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana, Northwest Region,         100,000
 Indianapolis, IN, for education programs including
 equipment................................................
Ivy Tech Community College, Terre Haute, IN, for equipment       600,000
 and technology for training programs at its Advanced
 Manufacturing Center.....................................
Jacksonville State University, Jacksonville, AL, for             250,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Jewish Employment and Vocational Service (JEVS) d/b/a JEVS       165,000
 Human Services, Philadelphia, PA, for an associate degree
 program in court reporting, which may include equipment
 and technology...........................................
Johnson C. Smith University, Charlotte, NC, for an               400,000
 Undergraduate Research Center for Electronic and Cyber
 Security, which may include equipment, technology and
 student financial assistance.............................
Jones County Junior College, Ellisville, MS, for purchase        200,000
 of equipment and technology upgrades.....................
Junior College District of Metropolitan Kansas City,             500,000
 Kansas City, MO, for purchase of equipment and technology
 upgrades for the radiological technology laboratory......
Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse            100,000
 Services, Kalamazoo, MI, for a nursing distance education
 curriculum, including purchase of equipment..............
Kalamazoo Valley Community College, Kalamazoo, MI, for           550,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Kankakee Community College, Kankakee, IL, for renewable          400,000
 energy technology training programs, which may include
 equipment and technology.................................
Keene State College, Keene, NH, for its Regional Center          300,000
 for Advanced Manufacturing Education, which may include
 equipment and student financial assistance...............
Keene State College, Keene, NH, for curriculum development       100,000
 and educational equipment for the Monadnock Biodiesel
 Collaborative............................................
Kern Community College District, Bakersfield, CA, for            250,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Lackawanna College, Scranton, PA, for laboratory upgrades        100,000
 to a science center, including the purchase of equipment.
Lake Area Technical Institute, Watertown, SD, for                500,000
 educational equipment for the Energy Technology Program..
Lake Area Technical Institute, Watertown, SD, for                150,000
 educational equipment related to fire training...........
Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, MI, for curriculum         150,000
 development, including the purchase of equipment.........
Lake Superior College, Duluth, MN, for certificate and           200,000
 degree programs in aviation, which may include equipment
 and technology...........................................
Lakes Region Community College, Concord, NH, for                 125,000
 curriculum development and educational equipment for the
 Energy Services and Technology program...................
Lakeshore Technical College, Cleveland, WI, for curriculum       250,000
 development..............................................
Leeward Community College, Pearl City, HI, to provide            400,000
 college preparatory education for Filipino students......
Lesley University, Cambridge, MA, for development of the         150,000
 National Center for Teachers and School Leaders program..
LeTourneau University, Longview, TX, for purchase of             350,000
 equipment................................................
Lincoln Land Community College, Springfield, IL, for the         350,000
 HIRE Education Program, including purchase of equipment..
Lincoln University, Lincoln University, PA, for college          100,000
 preparation programs.....................................
Livingstone College, Salisbury, NC, for its Center for           300,000
 Holistic Learning to provide academic and student support
 services, which may include equipment and technology.....
Long Island University, Brookville, NY, for a Grow Your          700,000
 Own Teacher Program providing mentoring, education and
 support to high school students in underserved areas,
 which may include college scholarships...................
Lorain County Community College, Elyria, OH, for education       200,000
 programs including the purchase of equipment.............
Loras College, Dubuque, IA, for science education                200,000
 equipment................................................
Los Angeles City College Foundation, Los Angeles, CA for         450,000
 the Los Angeles City College nursing program.............
Loyola University New Orleans, New Orleans, LA, to               400,000
 establish The Center for Music and Arts Entrepreneurship
 & Music Industry Studies.................................
Lyndon State College, Lyndonville, VT, for a center for          300,000
 rural students...........................................
Madisonville Community College, Madisonville, KY for             100,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Marian University, Fond du Lac, WI for nursing curriculum        200,000
 development..............................................
Maricopa County Community College District, Mesa, AZ for         100,000
 health professions training..............................
Maricopa County Community College District, Tempe, AZ for        300,000
 its East Valley Veterans Education Center to enable
 veterans to enroll in and complete postsecondary
 education, which may include equipment and technology....
Maricopa County Community College District, Tempe, AZ for        300,000
 the Bilingual Nursing Program at South Mountain Community
 College, which may include stipends......................
Marshall University Research Corporation, Huntington, WV         300,000
 for equipment and technology for advanced maritime
 training.................................................
Marymount Manhattan College, New York, NY for academic           400,000
 programs at the Geraldine Farraro Center for Educational
 Excellence in Science, Technology, and Math, which may
 include equipment and technology.........................
Marymount University, Arlington, VA for science equipment        200,000
 and technology...........................................
Maryville College, Maryville, TN for an experiential             300,000
 science education program................................
Mercyhurst College, Erie, PA, for education programs and         100,000
 support services for individuals with disabilities.......
Metropolitan State College, Denver, CO for equipment and         200,000
 technology for its accredited aviation training program..
Mid-America Christian University, Oklahoma City, OK for          485,000
 teacher training programs, including purchase of
 equipment................................................
Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, TN for a        750,000
 STEM education teacher training initiative, which may
 include stipends.........................................
Midland Independent School District, Midland, TX for             350,000
 teacher training.........................................
Midway College, Inc, Midway, KY, for facilities and              100,000
 equipment................................................
Miles Community College, Miles City, MT, for curriculum          100,000
 development and educational equipment relating to
 bioenergy................................................
Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, Office of the         300,000
 Chancellor, St Paul, MN, for career and education
 services to veterans.....................................
Minot State University, Minot, ND, to establish a Center         950,000
 for Community Research and Service.......................
Mississippi College, Clinton, MS, to support dyslexia            250,000
 education and training...................................
Mississippi Valley State University, Itta Bena, MS for an        400,000
 initiative to prepare undergraduate students for
 professional medical education, which may include
 equipment, technology and scholarships...................
Missouri State University, Springfield, MO, for                1,000,000
 technology, equipment, and educational materials.........
Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY for an Academy for       275,000
 Veterans' Success to provide academic, career counseling,
 and support services to veterans.........................
Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY to establish a           325,000
 medical laboratory technician program, including
 curriculum development and purchase of equipment.........
Monroe County Community College, Monroe, MI for a Nuclear        200,000
 Engineering Technology Program...........................
Mott Community College, Flint, MI, for the Center for            200,000
 Advanced Manufacturing...................................
Mount Union College, Alliance, OH for engineering and            100,000
 technology programs, which may include curricula,
 faculty, equipment, technology and student support.......
Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA, for a civic engagement        100,000
 and service learning program.............................
National Labor College, George Meany Center for Labor            400,000
 Studies, Silver Spring, MD, for the Adult Learning
 Program..................................................
Nazareth College, Rochester, NY, for educational equipment       300,000
 and technology upgrades relating to math and science
 education................................................
Neumann College, Aston, PA for pharmacy education                200,000
 programs, which may include equipment and technology.....
New College, Sarasota, FL for digital collections at the         100,000
 Jane Bancroft Cook Library...............................
New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, NM for its Native        300,000
 American Criminal Justice Program, which may include
 student scholarships.....................................
Niagara Community College, Sanborn, NY for equipment and         100,000
 technology for training programs in hospitality and
 tourism..................................................
Niagara County Community College, Sanborn, NY for                275,000
 information technology upgrades..........................
North Arkansas College, Harrison, AR for an education            250,000
 technology initiative, including purchase of equipment...
North Shore Community College, Danvers, MA for a veterans        400,000
 education and job training program, which may include
 scholarships and stipends................................
Northampton Community College, Bethlehem, PA for                 400,000
 programmatic support of its Monroe County campus, which
 may include equipment and technology.....................
Northeast Iowa Community College, Calmar, IA, for a              300,000
 training program in renewable energy technology..........
Northern Kentucky University Foundation, Highland Heights,       350,000
 KY for purchase of equipment.............................
Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights, KY, for        2,400,000
 the purchase of equipment................................
Northern Virginia Community College, Annandale, VA for a         500,000
 health information management program....................
Northwestern Connecticut Community College, Winsted, CT          350,000
 for an associate degree nursing program, which may
 include equipment and technology.........................
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK for a wildlife         450,000
 management technician program, which may include
 equipment................................................
Palm Beach Community College, Lake Worth, FL for education       150,000
 and training programs in emerging industries at its
 Institute for Energy, which may include equipment and
 technology...............................................
Palm Beach Community College, Lake Worth, FL for equipment       350,000
 and technology for student technology and communication
 programs at its Belle Glade campus.......................
Pearl River Community College, Poplarville, MS, for              200,000
 instructional technology including the purchase of
 equipment................................................
Philadelphia University, Philadelphia, PA, for educational       100,000
 equipment relating to science............................
Pittsburg State University, Pittsburg, KS, for education         400,000
 programs.................................................
Polk Community College, Winter Haven, FL for purchase of         300,000
 equipment................................................
Portland Community College, Portland, OR for education and       350,000
 training programs in renewable energy and emerging
 industries, which may include equipment and technology...
Pulaski Technical College, North Little Rock, AR for             600,000
 library improvements, which may include equipment and
 technology...............................................
Rhode Island College Foundation, Providence, RI, for             200,000
 educational equipment relating to science................
Richland Community College, Decatur, IL for curriculum           200,000
 development in its bioenergy and bioprocessing degree
 programs.................................................
Riverside Community College District, Riverside, CA for          600,000
 curriculum development...................................
Rockford College, Rockford, IL, for technology upgrades          300,000
 and educational equipment................................
Rutgers University School of Law, Camden, NJ, for its            500,000
 public interest legal program, which may include
 scholarships and fellowships, a public interest summer
 externship program, its Marshall Brennan Program, and pro
 bono legal services......................................
Saint Xavier University, Chicago, IL, for technology and         750,000
 equipment................................................
Salve Regina University, Newport, RI for equipment and           500,000
 technology at its Blackstone Valley learning center and
 Newport campus...........................................
San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA for a          350,000
 competency-based early childhood education and training
 initiative, which may include equipment and technology...
San Jacinto College, Pasadena, TX for training programs in       400,000
 the maritime and energy industries, which may include
 equipment and technology.................................
San Jose State University Research Foundation, San Jose,         220,000
 CA for an interdisciplinary Center for Global Innovation
 and Immigration, including curricula development and
 student research.........................................
San Luis Obispo County Community College District, San           350,000
 Luis Obispo, CA for purchase of equipment................
San Mateo County Community College District, San Mateo, CA       350,000
 for the University Center Consortium initiative to expand
 academic programs and the number of students pursuing
 postsecondary education..................................
Santa Fe College, Gainesville, FL for a clinical                 450,000
 laboratory sciences program, including curriculum
 development and purchase of equipment....................
Seattle University, Seattle, WA for the Fostering Scholars       500,000
 Program, including scholarships..........................
Security on Campus, Inc, King of Prussia, PA, for a campus       100,000
 crime and emergency response training program............
Simpson College, Indianola, IA, for the creation of the          500,000
 John C Culver Public Policy Center.......................
Snow College, Ephraim, UT, for health professions                600,000
 education programs.......................................
Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau, MO          500,000
 for technology upgrades..................................
Southern Arkansas University Tech, Camden, AR, for               150,000
 curriculum development and educational equipment in the
 Aerospace Manufacturing program..........................
Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL for equipment       400,000
 and technology upgrades..................................
Southern Queens Park Association, Jamaica, NY for its            350,000
 Young Adults College Access & Preparedness Program, in
 partnership with Bard College and local high schools, to
 expand college access, retention and graduation for youth
 and young adults.........................................
Southern Union Community College, Wadley, AL for purchase        100,000
 of equipment.............................................
Special Education District of McHenry County, Woodstock,         100,000
 IL for the Pathways Program..............................
St. Clair County Community College, Port Huron, MI for           100,000
 curriculum development...................................
St. Francis College, Brooklyn, NY for its Project Access         650,000
 initiative, which may include equipment and technology...
St. Joseph's College, Brooklyn, NY for equipment and             400,000
 technology for science laboratories, smart classrooms and
 distance learning........................................
St. Mary's College of Maryland, St. Mary's City, MD for          600,000
 science laboratory and information technology equipment..
St. Norbert College, De Pere, WI for an initiative to            910,000
 prepare students in science, technology, engineering and
 math (STEM) fields, which may include equipment and
 technology...............................................
St. Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ for equipment and           300,000
 technology for smart classrooms..........................
St. Petersburg College, Clearwater, FL for a healthcare          300,000
 informatics program, including curriculum development and
 purchase of equipment....................................
St. Thomas University, Miami Gardens, FL for a science and       300,000
 technology teacher training program in conjunction with
 the Miami-Dade County Public School System...............
St. Vincent College, Latrobe, PA for purchase of equipment       150,000
St. Xavier University, Orland Park, IL for the Science,          500,000
 Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Education Center,
 including purchase of equipment..........................
State University of New York at Geneseo, Geneseo, NY for         500,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA, for science             100,000
 education programs and laboratory upgrades, including the
 purchase of equipment....................................
Tabor College, Hillsboro, KS, for rural nursing and              350,000
 education programs.......................................
Tallahassee Community College, Tallahassee, FL for               200,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Texas Life-Sciences Collaboration Center, Georgetown, TX         245,000
 for life science programs, including purchase of
 equipment................................................
Texas State Technical College, Waco, TX for its Career           100,000
 Paths for Veterans project...............................
Texas State University, San Marcos, TX for nursing             1,000,000
 curriculum development, including purchase of equipment..
Three Rivers Community College, Poplar Bluff, MO for an          215,000
 education technology initiative..........................
Trident Technical College, Charleston, SC for the nursing        500,000
 education program, which may include equipment...........
Trine University, Angola, IN for curriculum development...       340,000
Truckee Meadows Community College, Reno, NV, to establish        600,000
 an online degree program for non-traditional students....
Union County College, Cranford, NJ for curriculum                400,000
 development..............................................
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ for the Disability             500,000
 Resource Center to provide instruction and support to
 disabled veterans to ensure academic success, which may
 include equipment........................................
University of Arkansas at Monticello, Monticello, AR, for        250,000
 educational equipment, technology and wiring relating to
 energy and environmental education.......................
University of Central Arkansas, Conway, AR, for curriculum       100,000
 development and educational equipment relating to
 information technology...................................
University of Connecticut School of Law, Hartford, CT for        365,000
 a Center for Energy and Environmental Law................
University of Dubuque, Dubuque, IA, for equipment and            400,000
 technology for its aviation degree program...............
University of Guam, Mangilao, GU for development, in             300,000
 conjunction with the Guam Public School System and Guam
 Community College, of a K-16 educational program to
 provide a seamless pathway for college and careers.......
University of Hawaii at Hilo Clinical Pharmacy Training        1,500,000
 Program, Hilo, HI, for a clinical pharmacy training
 program..................................................
University of Hawaii School of Law, Honolulu, HI, for the        400,000
 health policy center.....................................
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, to       150,000
 design, create, and implement open source educational
 materials for use in introductory college courses........
University of Massachusetts-Boston, Boston, MA, for              200,000
 educational equipment to support a developmental science
 research center..........................................
University of Massachusetts-Lowell, Lowell, MA, for a            200,000
 cooperative education program............................
University of Minnesota, Crookston, MN for its Center for        550,000
 Rural Entrepreneurial Studies, which may include
 equipment, technology and student support................
University of Montana--Mike & Maureen Mansfield Center,          200,000
 Missoula, MT, to establish the Institute for Leadership
 and Public Service to fulfill the purposes of the
 Mansfield Center, including the creation of an endowment.
University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH for its National         450,000
 Center on Inclusive Education for Children with Autism
 Spectrum Disorders and Related Disabilities..............
University of New Haven, Waterbury, CT for equipment and         350,000
 technology for the Henry C. Lee Institute of Forensic
 Science Learning Center..................................
University of New Mexico-Taos, NM for equipment and              450,000
 technology for distance education programs...............
University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, to identify          500,000
 and address the educational needs of veterans with
 disabilities.............................................
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for         200,000
 curriculum and professional development at University of
 Southern Mississippi-Gulf Coast campus...................
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for         100,000
 teacher training at the Center for Economic Education....
University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS, for         500,000
 the development of a student retention initiative........
University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, Chattanooga, TN          770,000
 for the Center for Leadership in Science, Technology,
 Engineering and Mathematics Education, including purchase
 of equipment.............................................
University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, TX for a science,           300,000
 technology, engineering and math initiative, including
 purchase of equipment....................................
University of Virginia Center for Politics,                      100,000
 Charlottesville, VA, to develop interactive civic lessons
 for high school students.................................
University of Virginia, Wise, VA for installation of a           150,000
 Voice Over Internet Protocol telephone system and
 demonstration activities through its Emerging
 Technologies Learning Center.............................
University of Washington, Bothell, WA for a nursing              200,000
 faculty consortium training program, which may include
 scholarships.............................................
University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL, for education         650,000
 programs for veterans....................................
Urban College, Boston, MA, to support higher education           500,000
 programs serving low-income and minority students........
Utah State University, Logan, UT, to establish a land-           750,000
 grant education and research network.....................
Valley City State University, Valley City, ND, for the           750,000
 Great Plains STEM Education Center.......................
Vanguard University, Costa Mesa, CA for a teacher training       350,000
 initiative, including purchase of equipment..............
Voices of September 11th, New Canaan, CT, to continue the        100,000
 9/11 Living Memorial Project.............................
Wayne State College, Norfolk, NE for equipment at the            100,000
 South Sioux City College Center..........................
Weber State University, Ogden, UT, for curriculum                100,000
 development..............................................
Western Governors University, Salt Lake City, UT for             600,000
 curriculum development...................................
Western Kentucky Community and Technical College, Paducah,       250,000
 KY for purchase of equipment.............................
Western Kentucky University Research Foundation, Bowling       2,000,000
 Green, KY, for equipment purchase........................
Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, KY for               500,000
 purchase of equipment....................................
Westminster College, Salt Lake City, UT, to expand               500,000
 distance learning technology including the purchase of
 equipment................................................
Wharton County Jr. College, Wharton, TX for curriculum           220,000
 development to train students for work in the nuclear
 power industry...........................................
Wheelock College, Boston, MA, to develop a higher                100,000
 education access program for early childhood educators...
Whitworth University, Spokane, WA, for science,                  100,000
 technology, engineering, and mathematics equipment.......
Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC for its Focusing on           350,000
 Collegiate Undergraduate Success initiative to enhance
 residential learning and academic support services for
 students.................................................
Youngstown State University, Youngstown, OH for its Social-      200,000
 Emotional Learning (SEL) Project to integrate SEL theory
 and techniques into the College of Education curricula
 and for evaluation activities............................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      For Erma Byrd Scholarships, the conference agreement 
includes bill language designating $1,500,000 as proposed by 
the Senate. The House proposed $1,000,000 for these 
scholarships, which are intended to increase the size of the 
industrial health and safety workforce in the public and 
private sectors.
      For the Model Comprehensive Transition and Postsecondary 
Programs for Students with Intellectual Disabilities, the 
conferees intend that the Department support a range of awards 
in size and scope, up to $1,000,000 for each year of the award 
year, to promote the implementation of high-quality model 
programs and to provide a better understanding of an array of 
effective practices. The conferees direct that the Department 
provide a briefing to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate not less than 30 days 
prior to the release of a request for proposals.
      For TRIO, the conferees intend that the increase over 
fiscal year 2009 be used for the Student Support Services 
program, which will be re-competed in fiscal year 2010. The 
conferees recognize that supportive services aimed at 
increasing retention and graduation of low-income students in 
college are an important complement to student financial aid, 
particularly the Pell Grant program. Many such retention 
services are supported through Student Support Services grants. 
Thus, the conferees intend that the funds provided will 
maintain the number of Student Support Services grantees.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program

      The conference agreement includes $20,582,000 for the 
Historically Black College and University Capital Financing 
Program as proposed by the House instead of $10,354,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

      The conference agreement includes $659,006,000 for the 
Institute of Education Sciences (IES) instead of $664,256,000 
as proposed by the House and $679,256,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement specifies that $588,356,000 of 
total IES funding shall be available through fiscal year 2011.
      Within the amount provided for IES Research, Development, 
and Dissemination, the conference agreement includes $1,000,000 
for a national study on minority male achievement as described 
in section 1109 of the Higher Education Act. The House proposed 
$2,000,000 for this activity, while the Senate did not propose 
a similar provision.
      Within the amount provided for IES Research, Development, 
and Dissemination, the conference agreement includes $2,000,000 
for a new research and development center for adult learning 
and literacy, as outlined in House Report 111-220. The Senate 
did not propose a similar provision.
      The conferees are concerned about actions taken by IES 
that leave the impression that it is not subject to the same 
level of oversight and accountability as any other agency of 
the Department that receives and is responsible for allocating 
appropriated funds. In the fiscal year 2010 congressional 
budget justification, IES indicated that it would adhere to a 
congressional limitation included in the fiscal year 2009 
explanatory statement of $8,023,000 for the What Works 
Clearinghouse (WWC). However, the IES increased its allocation 
to WWC by more than one-third above this amount, without any 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations that spending 
information presented in budget documents would not be 
followed. The Committee expects the IES to adhere to funding 
limits and guidance established by the Committees on 
Appropriations.
      In addition, responses to requests for information about 
IES activities regularly come in later than most other agencies 
and the congressional budget justification provides limited 
information about the specific spending plans of the IES and 
the proposed allocation of resources. The conferees strongly 
support the mission of the IES, but believe the IES should make 
a greater effort to communicate clearly its plans for and use 
of taxpayer resources. Therefore, the conferees direct the IES 
to submit an operating plan to the Committees on Appropriations 
within 30 days of enactment of this Act and quarterly reports 
thereafter that describe planned research, development, and 
dissemination activities; actions taken to implement such 
activities; and amounts obligated for each activity at the 
level of detail and in the format shown in the program output 
measures displayed in the fiscal year 2010 congressional budget 
justification.

                        Departmental Management

                         PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement includes $456,200,000 for 
Program Administration instead of $452,200,000 as proposed by 
both the House and Senate. The conferees direct the Department 
to establish an Educational Opportunity and Equity Commission, 
as outlined in House Report 111-220. The Senate did not propose 
this provision.

                           General Provisions

                               IMPACT AID

      The conference agreement includes a general provision as 
proposed by the Senate amending Public Law 110-161 to make 
available certain Impact Aid basic support payments to several 
school districts in Illinois for an additional two years. The 
House did not propose a similar provision.

                                 PALAU

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
that extends Palau's eligibility for certain education programs 
through the end of fiscal year 2010. Neither the House nor the 
Senate proposed a similar provision.

                         STATE INCENTIVE GRANTS

      The conference agreement includes a new general provision 
making a technical amendment to section 14006 of Public Law 
111-5 pertaining to State Incentive Grants. Neither the House 
nor the Senate proposed a similar provision.

                      SCHOOL BUILDING FAIRNESS ACT

      The conference agreement does not include a general 
provision as proposed by the Senate amending S. 1121, the 
School Building Fairness Act of 2009, to include provisions 
pertaining to public school libraries. The House did not 
propose a similar provision.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $857,021,000 for the 
operating expenses of the programs administered by the 
Corporation for National and Community Service (the 
Corporation) instead of $792,179,000 as proposed by the House 
and $864,316,000 as proposed by the Senate. Funding for the 
National Service Trust is provided in a separate appropriations 
account as proposed by both the House and Senate.
      As proposed by the Senate, within the total for the 
National Senior Volunteer Corps, the maximum total dollars that 
may be used in fiscal year 2010 for Grants.gov/eGrants support, 
Training and Technical Assistance, and Recruitment and 
Retention activities shall not exceed the amount provided for 
these activities in fiscal year 2009. The House did not propose 
similar language.
      As proposed by the Senate, the conferees direct that any 
assignments made under section 1708 of the Serve America Act 
relating to programs authorized under the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act shall be published in the Federal Register and, 
following normal procedure, allow for a 90-day comment period. 
Further, the conferees direct the Corporation to detail any 
such assignments in its annual budget justification. The House 
did not propose similar language.
      Within the total provided for Innovation, Assistance, and 
Other Activities, the conference agreement includes $50,000,000 
for the Social Innovation Fund as proposed by the Senate 
instead of $35,000,000 as proposed by the House.
      Within the total provided for Innovation, Assistance, and 
Other Activities, the conference agreement includes $1,000,000 
for the nonprofit capacity building program instead of 
$2,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose 
funding for this program.
      Within the total provided for Innovation, Assistance, and 
Other Activities, the conference agreement includes $4,000,000 
for the Volunteer Generation Fund instead of $8,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The House did not propose similar 
language. The conference agreement includes bill language 
making the full amount available on a competitive basis to 
State Commissions. Neither the House nor the Senate proposed 
similar language.
      The conference agreement does not concur in the Senate 
proposal to include funding within the Corporation for 
competitive grants under the Volunteer Generation Fund focused 
on identifying and enrolling eligible individuals into already 
existing Federal, State, and local benefit programs. Rather, 
$2,000,000 is included for this activity within the Department 
of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and 
Families. The House did not propose similar language.
      Within the total provided for Learn and Serve America, 
the conference agreement includes $2,000,000 for the newly 
authorized Summer of Service program as proposed by the House. 
The Senate did not propose funding for this program.

                         NATIONAL SERVICE TRUST

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      As proposed by the Senate, the conference agreement 
includes $197,000,000 for the National Service Trust, to be 
available until expended, instead of $178,214,000 as proposed 
by the House.
      The conference agreement does not concur with the House 
proposal to include language designating that $1,000,000 within 
the total for the National Service Trust is for education 
awards for Summer of Service program participants. The Senate 
did not propose similar language. The conferees note that 
Summer of Service program participants are entitled to 
education awards, therefore language carving out dollars 
specifically for these program participants is unnecessary.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $88,000,000 for the 
Corporation for National and Community Service Salaries and 
Expenses as proposed by the Senate instead of $80,923,000 as 
proposed by the House.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

                       CHANGES THROUGH RULEMAKING

      The conference agreement continues to include language 
that the Corporation for National and Community Service (the 
Corporation) shall make any changes to program requirements, 
service delivery, or policy only through public notice and 
comment rulemaking to include service delivery changes in the 
administration and/or governance of national service programs 
as proposed by the House. The Senate proposed language that the 
Corporation notify the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees 15 days prior to making any significant changes to 
the programs or policies.

                      COMBINED MATCHING OF GRANTS

      The conference agreement continues to include language 
that combines separate matching requirements for AmeriCorps 
grants as proposed by the House. The Senate did not propose 
similar language.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

      The conference agreement includes a fiscal year 2012 
advance appropriation of $445,000,000 for the Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting (CPB) instead of $440,000,000 as proposed 
by the House and $450,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      In addition, the conference agreement provides fiscal 
year 2010 appropriations for CPB totaling $86,000,000 instead 
of $101,000,000 as proposed by the House and $71,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Of the total fiscal year 2010 funding 
in the conference agreement, $25,000,000 is for fiscal 
stabilization grants to public radio and television stations, 
which have experienced a downturn in revenues due to the 
recession that has resulted in job losses and reductions to 
local programming and services. The House proposed $40,000,000 
and the Senate proposed $10,000,000 for this purpose. In 
addition, the conference agreement includes bill language 
providing that fiscal stabilization grants shall be awarded to 
public radio and television licensees no later than 45 days 
after enactment of this Act based on the guidance outlined in 
House Report 111-220. The remaining fiscal year 2010 
appropriations include $36,000,000 for digital transition 
grants and $25,000,000 to complete the replacement of the 
public radio interconnection system.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $46,652,000 for the 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service instead of 
$47,000,000 as proposed by the House and $46,303,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within the amount provided, the 
conference agreement includes $349,000 for the Labor-Management 
Grants program to remain available through September 30, 2010, 
instead of $650,000 as proposed by the House to remain 
available through September 30, 2011. The Senate did not 
include a similar provision.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $10,358,000 for the 
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission instead of 
$9,858,000 as proposed by the House and $10,858,000 as proposed 
by the Senate.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    OFFICE OF MUSEUM AND LIBRARY SERVICES: GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement includes $282,251,000 for the 
Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) instead of 
$275,688,000 as proposed by the House and $275,056,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Within the total for IMLS, the conference agreement 
includes funds for the following activities in the following 
amounts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Budget activity                            House              Senate           Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Library Services Technology Act:
    Grants to States...................................            172,561            172,000            172,561
    Native American Library Services...................              3,717              4,000              4,000
    National Leadership: Libraries.....................             12,437             12,437             12,437
    Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian..................             24,525                N/A             24,525
  Museum Services Act:
    Museums for America................................             19,176                N/A             19,176
    Museum Assessment Program..........................                460                N/A                460
    21st Century Museum Professionals..................              1,280                N/A              1,280
    Conservation Project Support.......................              3,052                N/A              3,052
    Conservation Assessment Program....................                803                N/A                803
    Native American/Hawaiian Museum Services...........                945                975                975
    National Leadership: Museums.......................              7,981                N/A              7,981
  African American History and Culture Act:
    Museum Grants for African American History &                     1,485                N/A              1,485
     Culture...........................................
Program Administration.................................             17,134             17,134             17,134
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Within the amount provided for Program Administration, 
the conference agreement includes $4,000,000 for research and 
data collection activities. Neither the House nor Senate 
included similar language.
      The bill includes $16,382,000 for the following projects 
in the following amounts:

        Project                                                   Amount
Aerospace Museum of California Foundation, Inc., McClellan, CA 
    for maintenance of collections............................   930,000
Alameda County Library Foundation, Fremont, CA for technology 
    and equipment for the Castro Calley Library...............   300,000
Bishop Museum, Honolulu, HI, for assessments and educational 
    programming...............................................   200,000
Botanical Research Institute of Texas, Ft. Worth, TX to 
    enhance collections.......................................   500,000
Cape Cod Maritime Museum, Cape Cod, MA, for the continued 
    development of exhibits and educational programs..........   100,000
Cedar Rapids Public Library, Cedar Rapids, IA, for library 
    services, including RFID upgrade..........................   500,000
Center for American History, Austin, TX for educational 
    programming at the Sam Rayburn Library and Museum.........   250,000
Children's Discovery Museum of San Jose, San Jose, CA for 
    education programs........................................   120,000
City of Chino Hills, CA for library facility improvements.....   250,000
City of Daphne, AL for library equipment......................   100,000
City of Desert Hot Springs, CA for preservation of collections 
    at the Cabot's Pueblo Museum..............................   100,000
City of Hagerstown, MD, to restore and display the Doleman 
    collection................................................   150,000
City of San Diego, CA for books, technology, education and 
    outreach programs for the Skyline Hills Branch Library....    25,000
City of Twin Falls, ID to digitize collections................   100,000
City of Yucaipa, CA for expanded library collections and 
    technology upgrades.......................................   100,000
Czech & Slovak Museum & Library, Cedar Rapids, IA, for 
    exhibits..................................................   500,000
Downingtown Library Senior Center, Downingtown, PA to expand 
    collections and for technology upgrades...................   350,000
Eagle Mountain City, UT, for the purchase of equipment........   100,000
Florida Holocaust Museum, St. Petersburg, FL for exhibits, 
    collections and educational outreach programs.............   200,000
Gig Harbor History Museum, Gig Harbor, WA for exhibits and 
    interactive displays......................................   200,000
Glenville State College, Glenville, WV for programming and 
    equipment for the college library's veteran's history 
    project...................................................   350,000
Great Lakes Science Center, Cleveland, OH, for education, 
    outreach and exhibits.....................................   200,000
Gulf Coast Exploreum Science Center, Mobile, AL for exhibits 
    and educational outreach..................................   100,000
Holyoke Public Library, Holyoke, MA, for educational equipment 
    and technology infrastructure.............................   100,000
Iowa Radio Reading Information Service for the Blind and Print 
    Handicapped, Inc, Des Moines, IA, for the upgrade of tuner 
    receivers and the purchase of equipment...................   100,000
Isamue Noguchi Foundation and Garden Museum, Long Island City, 
    NY for conservation projects..............................    30,000
Louisiana Children's Museum, New Orleans, LA, to establish an 
    early childhood and parenting program.....................   250,000
McLean County Fiscal Court, Calhoun, KY, for equipment and 
    technology at Livermore Library...........................   250,000
Mississippi Children's Museum, Jackson, MS, for installation, 
    exhibits and educational programming......................   300,000
Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College, Perkinston, MS, for 
    archive of newspaper and digital media....................   100,000
Mississippi Museum of Natural Science Foundation, Jackson, MS 
    for educational outreach programs.........................   220,000
Mississippi Museum of Natural Science Foundation, Jackson, MS, 
    for science education exhibits and outreach programs......   100,000
Morris Museum, Morristown, NJ for exhibits and educational 
    programming...............................................   300,000
Museum of Aviation, Warner Robins, GA for science and 
    educational programs......................................   350,000
Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago, IL for teacher 
    professional development..................................   175,000
Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mystic, CT for technology based 
    educational programs......................................   500,000
National Mississippi River Museum and Aquarium, Dubuque, IA, 
    for exhibits relating to the Mississippi River............   500,000
National Voting Rights Museum & Institute, Selma, AL for the 
    preservation and restoration of exhibits..................   450,000
Native American Cultural Center and Museum, Oklahoma City, OK 
    for exhibits and educational programming..................   750,000
New Jersey State Library Talking Book and Braille Center, 
    Trenton, NJ for an awareness campaign and digital 
    materials.................................................   100,000
Oakland Museum of California, Oakland, CA for a technology 
    initiative for educational outreach.......................   250,000
Orange County Library System, Orlando, FL for Spanish language 
    media and books...........................................   500,000
Phoenixville Public Library, Phoenixville, PA to enhance 
    collections...............................................   157,000
Robert Russa Moton Museum, Farmville, VA, to develop and 
    install exhibitions on civil rights.......................   100,000
Sewall-Belmont House and Museum, Washington, DC, for 
    exhibitions............................................... 1,000,000
St. Louis Art Museum Foundation, St. Louis, MO for restoration 
    and reinstallation of exhibits............................   225,000
Tallahatchie County Board of Supervisors, Glendora, MS for 
    preservation of exhibits and collections for the Emmett 
    Till memorial complex.....................................   400,000
Texas Southern University, Robert Terry Library and Mickey 
    Leland Center, Houston, TX for archive preservation.......   300,000
Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for the Virtual Vietnam 
    Archive...................................................   850,000
Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Site Foundation, Buffalo, NY for 
    exhibits and interactive displays.........................   150,000
Town of Jamestown, Jamestown, CA for books and materials for 
    the Jamestown County Library..............................   100,000
University of Mississippi, University, MS, for preserving and 
    digitizing recordings in the modern political library 
    archives..................................................   450,000
University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the American 
    Music Archives............................................   300,000
Washington National Opera, Washington, DC, for set design, 
    installation, and performing arts at libraries and schools   200,000
Witte Museum, San Antonio, TX for exhibits and educational 
    outreach..................................................   250,000
World Food Prize, Des Moines, IA, for exhibits................   750,000
Young at Art Children's Museum, Davie, FL for the Global 
    Village educational program...............................   100,000

                        National Mediation Board

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $13,463,000 for the 
National Mediation Board instead of $12,992,000 as proposed by 
the House and $13,934,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
increase provided is intended to increase the number of 
arbitration cases heard and closed.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

             LIMITATION ON THE OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement includes authority to expend 
$8,186,000 from the Railroad Retirement and Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Trust Funds for the Office of Inspector 
General as proposed by both the House and Senate. The 
conference agreement does not include bill language proposed by 
the House that prohibits the transfer of any other funds 
provided in this Act to the Office of the Inspector General. 
The Senate did not include such a provision.

                     Social Security Administration

                 LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $11,446,500,000 for a 
Limitation on Administrative Expenses for the Social Security 
Administration (SSA), which is the same level proposed by both 
the House and the Senate. The conference agreement provides 
$45,000 for official reception and representation expenses as 
proposed by the Senate. The House included $40,000 for these 
expenses.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
designating that from within the amounts provided for the 
Limitation on Administrative Expenses, not less than 
$273,000,000 may be used for conducting continuing disability 
reviews and redeterminations of eligibility under SSA's 
disability programs. An additional $485,000,000 is also 
provided for these continuing disability reviews and 
redeterminations of eligibility through a discretionary cap 
adjustment, as included in the Concurrent Resolution on the 
Budget for Fiscal Year 2010. These amounts are the same levels 
as proposed by the House and the Senate. Moreover, the 
conference agreement includes bill language allowing up to 
$34,000,000 of the additional funds to be available for asset 
verification initiatives if the Office of the Chief Actuary 
determines that such initiatives would be at least as cost 
effective as redeterminations of eligibility as proposed by the 
House. The Senate bill contained a similar provision.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             OFFICIAL RECEPTION AND REPRESENTATION EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
authorizing official reception and representation expenses for 
the Secretaries of Labor and Education, the Director of the 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and the Chairman of 
the National Mediation Board. The agreement specifies $22,000 
for the Secretary of Education as proposed by the Senate 
instead of $20,000 as proposed by the House.

                        NEEDLE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement modifies a general provision to 
prohibit the use of funds in this Act to distribute any needle 
or syringe for the purpose of preventing the spread of blood 
borne pathogens in any location that local public health or law 
enforcement agencies determine to be inappropriate. The House 
proposed language prohibiting the use of funds in this Act for 
needle exchange programs that are located within 1,000 feet of 
a public or private day care center, elementary school, 
vocational school, secondary school, college, junior college, 
or university, or any public swimming pool, park, playground, 
video arcade, or youth center, or an event sponsored by any 
such entity. The Senate proposed language prohibiting the use 
of funds in this Act for any needle exchange programs.

                  NONCOMPETITIVE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

      The conference agreement modifies a general provision 
proposed by the House and the Senate to require the Secretaries 
of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education to submit a 
quarterly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate containing certain 
information on noncompetitive contracts, grants, and 
cooperative agreements exceeding $500,000 in value, excluding 
those awarded on a formula basis or directed by law. The House 
proposed a reporting threshold exceeding $100,000, while the 
Senate proposed a threshold exceeding $5,000,000.

  MINIMUM WAGE IN AMERICAN SAMOA AND THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN 
                            MARIANA ISLANDS

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the Senate that delays until September 30, 2010, 
and until September 30 of each year thereafter, scheduled 
minimum wage increases in American Samoa and the Commonwealth 
of the Northern Mariana Islands. The House did not include a 
similar provision.

                   FRAUDULENT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the House prohibiting the use of funds in this Act 
to process claims for credit for quarters of coverage based on 
work performed under a Social Security number that is not the 
claimant's number and the performance of such work under such 
number has formed the basis for a conviction of the claimant of 
a violation of section 208(a)(6) or (7) of the Social Security 
Act. The Senate did not include a similar provision.

           SOCIAL SECURITY TOTALIZATION AGREEMENT WITH MEXICO

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the House that prohibits the use of funds in this 
Act to administer Social Security benefit payments under any 
Social Security Administration totalization agreement with 
Mexico. The Senate did not include a similar provision.

                 NO PUBLIC BENEFITS FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the House that prohibits the use of funds in this 
Act in a manner that contravenes the 1996 Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act. The 
Senate did not include a similar provision.

                         LABOR LAW ENFORCEMENT

      The conference agreement includes a general provision on 
the use of H and L visa fraud prevention and detection fees. 
The provision authorizes the Department of Homeland Security 
and the Department of Labor to conduct fraud prevention and 
enforcement programs that focus on industries likely to employ 
nonimmigrants. Neither the House nor the Senate included a 
similar provision.

                       USE OF FIRST-CLASS TRAVEL

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the House that prohibits the use of funds in this 
Act for first-class travel by the employees of agencies funded 
by this Act. The Senate did not include a similar provision.

                       FULL AND FAIR COMPETITION

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
requiring full and fair competition for any projects contained 
in House Report 111-220 that are considered congressional 
earmarks and intended for for-profit entities. Neither the 
House nor the Senate included a similar provision.

              CONTRACTOR AND GRANTEE FEDERAL TAX LIABILITY

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
proposed by the House that prohibits the use of funds in this 
Act for a contract or grant exceeding $5,000,000 unless the 
prospective contractor or grantee makes certain certifications 
regarding Federal tax liability. The Senate did not include a 
similar provision.

                     NIDA AND NIAAA RESEARCH GRANTS

      The conference agreement does not include a general 
provision proposed by the House prohibiting the use of funds in 
this Act for the National Institute on Drug Abuse grant 
numbered 1R21DA026324-01A1 and the National Institute on 
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism grants numbered 1R01AA018090-01 
and 5R01AA016059-03. The Senate did not include a similar 
provision.

                     USE OF ENERGY STAR LIGHT BULBS

      The conference agreement does not include a general 
provision proposed by the House that prohibits the use of funds 
in this Act to purchase light bulbs unless the light bulbs are 
``Energy Star'' qualified or have the ``Federal Energy 
Management Program'' designation. The Senate did not include a 
similar provision.

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Following is a list of congressional earmarks and 
congressionally directed spending items (as defined in clause 9 
of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, respectively) 
included in the conference report or the accompanying joint 
statement of managers, along with the name of each Senator, 
House Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who submitted 
a request to the Committee of jurisdiction for each item so 
identified. Neither the conference report nor the joint 
statement of managers contains any limited tax benefits or 
limited tariff benefits as defined in the applicable House or 
Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of rule XXI of the rules 
of the House of Representatives, none of the congressional 
earmarks listed below were committed to the conference 
committee on H.R. 3288. However, all following items were 
either (1) included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (H.R. 3293), as 
passed by the House or as reported by the Senate, or (2) in the 
report of the committee of either House on H.R. 3293.

                                                                           LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                       Requester(s)
               Agency                           Account                           Project                     Amount     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                            Administration                          House
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Higher Education            B.J. Stupak Olympic Scholarship               $977,000  The President      Stupak
 Projects                                                          Program for activities authorized
                                                                   under the Higher Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Higher Education            Strengthening Alaska Native and Native     $15,084,000  The President      Abercrombie; Hirono; Honda; Young (AK)
 Projects                                                          Hawaiian Serving Institutions
                                                                   Programs for activities authorized
                                                                   under the Higher Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Higher Education            Thurgood Marshall Legal Scholarships        $3,000,000  The President      Jackson (IL)
 Projects                                                          Program authorized under the Higher
                                                                   Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Higher Education            Tribally Controlled Postsecondary           $8,162,000  The President      Honda
 Projects                                                          Vocational Institutions authorized
                                                                   under the Perkins Career and
                                                                   Technical Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  Arts in Education program authorized       $40,000,000  The President      Hastings (FL); Herseth Sandlin; Hirono; Holt;
 Projects                                                          by the Elementary and Secondary                                            Honda; Johnson, Eddie Bernice; Langevin;
                                                                   Education Act                                                              McDermott; Miller (NC); Pomeroy; Rahall;
                                                                                                                                              Slaughter; Tauscher; Van Hollen; Woolsey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  Exchanges with Historic Whaling and         $8,754,000  The President      Abercrombie; Hirono
 Projects                                                          Trading Partners for activities
                                                                   authorized under the Elementary and
                                                                   Secondary Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  National Board for Professional            $10,649,000  The President
 Projects                                                          Teaching Standards for activities
                                                                   authorized under the Elementary and
                                                                   Secondary Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  National Writing Project for               $25,646,000  The President      Berkley; Capps; Capuano; Cardoza; Crowley; Davis
 Projects                                                          activities authorized under the                                            (CA); Davis (IL); Ellison; Hirono; Holt; Johnson,
                                                                   Elementary and Secondary Education                                         Eddie Bernice; Kildee; Langevin; McCarthy (NY);
                                                                   Act                                                                        Miller, George; Murphy (CT); Oberstar; Pomeroy;
                                                                                                                                              Ross; Sarbanes; Van Hollen; Waxman; Wu; Yarmuth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  Reading is Fundamental authorized          $24,803,000  The President      Abercrombie; Arcuri; Berkley; Bordallo; Brown (SC);
 Projects                                                          under the Elementary and Secondary                                         Capps; Capuano; Carnahan; Castor (FL); Connolly
                                                                   Education Act                                                              (VA); Conyers; Costa; Crowley; Cuellar; Davis
                                                                                                                                              (CA); Davis (IL); Ellison; Etheridge; Fattah;
                                                                                                                                              Fudge; Gerlach; Gonzalez; Green, Gene; Grijalva;
                                                                                                                                              Gutierrez; Halvorson; Hastings (FL); Herseth
                                                                                                                                              Sandlin; Hinojosa; Hirono; Holt; Johnson (GA);
                                                                                                                                              Johnson, Eddie Bernice; Kucinich; Langevin; Lee
                                                                                                                                              (NY); Lofgren, Zoe; Marshall; McGovern; McHugh;
                                                                                                                                              Miller (NC); Moore (WI); Moran (VA); Murphy (CT);
                                                                                                                                              Nadler (NY); Napolitano; Norton; Oberstar; Ortiz;
                                                                                                                                              Paul; Payne; Perriello; Pierluisi; Pomeroy; Price
                                                                                                                                              (NC); Rahall; Roskam; Ross; Rothman (NJ); Rush;
                                                                                                                                              Sarbanes; Scott (GA); Scott (VA); Shimkus; Smith
                                                                                                                                              (NJ); Snyder; Tauscher; Van Hollen; Waters;
                                                                                                                                              Waxman; Whitfield; Yarmuth; Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Innovation and Improvement  Teach for America as authorized under      $18,000,000  The President      Abercrombie; Berkley; Capuano; Carnahan; Conyers;
 Projects                                                          the Higher Education Act                                                   Davis (AL); Davis (IL); Eshoo; Etheridge; Fattah;
                                                                                                                                              Grijalva; Gutierrez; Herseth Sandlin; Hinojosa;
                                                                                                                                              Hirono; Johnson (GA); Johnson, Eddie Bernice;
                                                                                                                                              Miller (NC); Moore (WI); Ortiz; Price (NC); Ross;
                                                                                                                                              Sablan; Sarbanes; Van Hollen; Waters; Waxman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     School Improvement          Alaska Native Educational Equity for       $33,315,000  The President      Young (AK)
 Projects                                                          activities authorized under the
                                                                   Elementary and Secondary Education
                                                                   Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     School Improvement          Education for Native Hawaiians for         $34,315,000  The President      Abercrombie; Hirono; Honda
 Projects                                                          activities authorized under the
                                                                   Elementary and Secondary Education
                                                                   Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--National     Special Olympics            Special Olympics for Special Olympics       $8,095,000  The President      Conyers; Honda; Hoyer; Price (NC); Rehberg
 Projects                                                          educational programs that can be
                                                                   integrated into classroom instruction
                                                                   and for activities to increase the
                                                                   participation of individuals with
                                                                   intellectual disabilities, as
                                                                   authorized under the Special Olympics
                                                                   Sport and Empowerment Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human          ACF                         National Association of Child Care          $1,000,000  The President      Moran (VA)
 Services--National Projects                                       Resources and Referral Agencies for
                                                                   the Child Care Aware toll-free
                                                                   hotline authorized under the Child
                                                                   Care and Development Block Grant Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human          HRSA                        Native Hawaiian Health Care to provide     $14,000,000  The President      Abercrombie; Hirono; Honda
 Services--National Projects                                       primary health promotion and disease
                                                                   prevention services to Native
                                                                   Hawaiians through regional clinics
                                                                   under the Native Hawaiian Health Care
                                                                   Act of 1988
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                           LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                               Requester(s)
             Agency                          Account                                     Project                              Amount     -------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                     House                      Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         3D School, Petal, MS, for a model dyslexia intervention        $250,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Action for Bridgeport Community Development, Inc.,             $700,000  Himes                       Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Bridgeport, CT for its Total Learning early childhood
                                                                  initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Adelphi University, Garden City, NY, to support the            $200,000  McCarthy (NY)               Schumer
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Adelphi University Institute for Math and Science
                                                                  Teachers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Alabama School of Math and Science, Mobile, AL for             $100,000  Bonner
                                   Education (includes FIE)       curriculum development and teacher training, including
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Alaska Native Heritage Center, Anchorage, AK for               $150,000  Young (AK)                  Begich
                                   Education (includes FIE)       educational programming and outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         America Scores, St. Louis, MO for an after-school              $200,000  Carnahan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         An Achievable Dream, Newport News, VA for education and        $300,000  Wittman; Scott (VA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       support services for at-risk children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Aquatic Adventures Science Education Foundation, San           $200,000  Davis (CA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Diego, CA for an after-school science education
                                                                  program, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Arab City School District, Arab, AL for an education           $150,000  Aderholt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Army Heritage Center Foundation, Carlisle, PA, for             $100,000                              Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       history education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Auburn Joint Vocational School District, Concord               $250,000  LaTourette
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Township, OH for curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         AVANCE, Inc., Austin, TX for parenting education               $350,000  Doggett
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         AVANCE, Inc., El Paso, TX for a parenting education            $250,000  Reyes
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         AVANCE, Inc., Waco, TX for a family literacy program           $100,000  Edwards (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Avant-Garde Learning Foundation, Anchorage, AK, for            $500,000                              Murkowski; Begich
                                   Education (includes FIE)       educational activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Babyland Family Services, Inc., Newark, NJ for an early        $400,000  Payne
                                   Education (includes FIE)       childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Baltimore City Public Schools, Baltimore MD to                 $500,000  Cummings
                                   Education (includes FIE)       establish alternative education programs for
                                                                  academically-challenged students, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Bay Point Schools, Inc., Miami, FL for a boarding              $400,000  Meek (FL)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       school for at-risk students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Best Buddies Florida, Orlando, FL for mentoring                $250,000  Crenshaw
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs in the 4th Congressional District for
                                                                  elementary and secondary school students with
                                                                  disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Big Brothers Big Sisters of Alaska, Anchorage, AK, for         $100,000                              Murkowski
                                   Education (includes FIE)       a mentoring demonstration project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh, Inc,           $100,000                              Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Pittsburgh, PA, for mentoring programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Billings Public Schools, Billings, MT, for career              $100,000                              Tester
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training in construction technology, including the
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Bloomfield Board of Education, Bloomfield, NJ to               $300,000  Pascrell                    Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   Education (includes FIE)       provide alternative education for academically-
                                                                  challenged students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Boise State University, Boise, ID for the Idaho                $400,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       SySTEMic Solution program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Boys and Girls Club of Truckee Meadows, Reno, NV, to           $175,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       develop an Internet safety program in schools
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Brehm Preparatory School, Carbondale, IL, to support           $250,000                              Durbin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       the development of a national database for learning
                                                                  disabilities education and research at Brehm Prep
                                                                  School
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Brockton Area Private Industry Council, Inc, Brockton,         $100,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       MA, for workforce development programs for at-risk
                                                                  youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Bushnell, Hartford, CT, for the PARTNERS Art Education         $100,000  Larson (CT)                 Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Caddo Parish School Board, Shreveport, LA, for                 $100,000                              Vitter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Calcasieu Parish School Board, Lake Charles, LA, for           $100,000                              Vitter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         California State University, Northridge, CA for teacher        $400,000  Sherman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training and professional development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Capeverdean American Community Development, Pawtucket,         $100,000  Kennedy
                                   Education (includes FIE)       RI for after-school, tutoring, and literacy programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Carnegie Hall, New York, NY for music education                $300,000  Maloney
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Center for Rural Development, Somerset, KY for the             $500,000  Rogers (KY)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Forward in the Fifth literacy program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         CentroNia, Takoma Park, MD, to expand pre-K services           $500,000  Van Hollen                  Mikulski; Cardin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       and train early education teachers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Charter School Development Foundation, Las Vegas, NV           $400,000  Berkley                     Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an early childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Chicago Public Schools, Chicago, IL, to provide                $300,000                              Durbin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       professional development to upper elementary and
                                                                  middle school science teachers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Chicago Youth Centers, Chicago, IL for the ABC Youth           $200,000  Davis (IL)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Center after school program, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Childhelp, Inc., Scottsdale, AZ to develop a                   $250,000  Crenshaw
                                   Education (includes FIE)       comprehensive update to the Good Touch Bad Touch
                                                                  curriculum in conjunction with the Monique Burr
                                                                  Foundation, Jacksonville, FL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Children's Home of Easton, PA, for tutoring and                $125,000                              Casey; Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       mentoring at-risk youth during summer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA for an        $250,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Education (includes FIE)       outreach program to encourage minorities to consider
                                                                  health care careers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Children's Literacy Initiative, Philadelphia, PA for           $200,000  Fattah                      Specter; Casey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       its literacy program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Choice Thru Education, Inc., Chelsea, MA for                   $100,000  Capuano
                                   Education (includes FIE)       educational and career development programs for at-
                                                                  risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Bell, CA for an after-school program, which may        $200,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Education (includes FIE)       include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Fairfield, CA for an after-school and job-             $350,000  Tauscher
                                   Education (includes FIE)       skills training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of La Habra, CA for the Young at Art program              $148,000  Miller, Gary
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Los Angeles, CA, for the LA's BEST afterschool         $900,000                              Feinstein
                                   Education (includes FIE)       enrichment program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Newark, CA for an after-school program                  $50,000  Stark                       Boxer
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Prestonsburg, KY for an arts education                 $200,000  Rogers (KY)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Racine, WI, for an afterschool and summer              $200,000                              Kohl
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program for children and their parents
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City of Vernonia School District, Vernonia, OR, for            $150,000  Wu                          Wyden; Merkley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology and equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City School District of New Rochelle, New Rochelle, NY         $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City Year New Hampshire, Stratham, NH, to expand               $254,000                              Gregg
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education and youth development programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         City Year Rhode Island, Providence, RI, for a school-          $100,000                              Whitehouse; Reed
                                   Education (includes FIE)       based initiative to improve the conditions that lead
                                                                  to student success and increase the graduation rate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Clark County School District, Las Vegas, NV, to create         $600,000  Berkley; Titus              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       a school for highly gifted students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Clark County School District, Las Vegas, NV, to expand         $600,000  Berkley                     Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       instructional support for English-language learners
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cleveland Municipal School District, Cleveland, OH, to         $100,000  Fudge                       Voinovich
                                   Education (includes FIE)       improve math and language skills through music
                                                                  education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional              $900,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Learning, Chicago, IL for social and emotional
                                                                  learning curriculum development and implementation in
                                                                  the Youngstown, Niles, and/or Warren City, OH school
                                                                  districts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         College Success Foundation, Issaquah, WA for its               $400,000  Dicks; Smith (WA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       academic support and mentoring programs, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Columbia Springs Environmental Education Center,               $100,000                              Murray
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Vancouver, WA, to expand a summer school program that
                                                                  prepares high school students to pursue postsecondary
                                                                  education and green careers, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public            $250,000  Sablan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       School Systems, Saipan, MP for its Refaluwasch and
                                                                  Chamorro language programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public            $100,000  Sablan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       School Systems, Saipan, MP for the purchase of books
                                                                  and educational materials
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Communities in Schools--Northeast Texas c/o Northeast          $200,000  Hall (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Texas Community College, Mt. Pleasant, TX for dropout
                                                                  prevention programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Communities-in-Schools, Bell-Coryell Counties Inc.,            $250,000  Carter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Killeen, TX for the Youngest Victims of War project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Connecticut Technical High School System, Middletown,          $350,000  DeLauro
                                   Education (includes FIE)       CT for equipment for Eli Whitney Technical High
                                                                  School's Manufacturing Technology Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Connecticut Technical High School System, Middletown,          $250,000  DeLauro
                                   Education (includes FIE)       CT for equipment for Vinal Technical High School's
                                                                  Manufacturing Technology Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Contra Costa Child Care Council, Concord, CA for an            $150,000  Miller, George
                                   Education (includes FIE)       early childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 10, Chippewa        $300,000  Obey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Falls, WI for after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 11, Turtle          $400,000  Obey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Lake, WI for after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 12, Ashland,        $400,000  Obey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       WI for after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cooperative Educational Service Agency No. 9, Tomahawk,        $300,000  Obey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       WI for after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Corpus Christi Independent School District, Corpus             $200,000  Ortiz
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Christi, TX for its South Texas School Literacy
                                                                  Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         County of Alachua, FL for after school programming             $250,000  Stearns; Brown, Corrine
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         County of Butte, Oroville, CA, for the Literacy is for         $150,000                              Boxer
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Everyone family literacy program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Creative Visions, Des Moines, IA, for a dropout                $200,000  Boswell                     Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cullman County Schools, Cullman, AL for a mobile               $150,000  Aderholt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       laboratory initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners,                 $100,000  Kucinich; Fudge; Sutton
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Cleveland, OH for an early childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch, Minot, ND, for an                 $475,000                              Conrad; Dorgan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       elementary school program that targets high-risk
                                                                  students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Darden School Foundation, Charlottesville, VA, to              $150,000                              Warner; Webb
                                   Education (includes FIE)       improve rural, chronically low-performing schools in
                                                                  southwest Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Davidson Academy of Nevada, Reno, NV, for math and             $400,000                              Ensign
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Delaware Department of Education, Dover, DE for a              $250,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       school leadership initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Delaware Department of Technology and Information,             $100,000  Castle                      Kaufman; Carper
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Dover, DE, to improve Internet access to Delaware
                                                                  schools, including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Delta Arts Alliance, Inc, Drew, MS, for arts education         $100,000                              Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       and curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for music               $300,000                              Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education in rural areas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Des Moines Public Schools, Des Moines, IA, to expand           $750,000                              Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       pre-kindergarten programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Devereux Center for Effective Schools, King of Prussia,        $100,000  Gerlach                     Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       PA for the School-wide Positive Behavioral Support
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         East Los Angeles Classic Theater, Los Angeles, CA for          $150,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Education (includes FIE)       an arts education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         East Side Community Learning Center Foundation,                $100,000                              Carper; Kaufman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Wilmington, DE, to support supplemental education and
                                                                  enrichment programs for high-needs students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         East Whittier City School District, Whittier, CA for           $225,000  Sanchez, Linda
                                   Education (includes FIE)       support services for at-risk students, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, Somerset, KY for environmental         $250,000  Rogers (KY)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Eden Housing, Hayward, CA for a technology training            $100,000  Eshoo
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Education Service Center, Region 12, Hillsboro, TX for          $70,000  Edwards (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       a GEAR UP college preparation program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Enrichment Services Program, Inc., Columbus, GA for            $100,000  Bishop (GA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       after-school tutoring and GED programs for at-risk
                                                                  youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Evansville Vanderburgh School Corporation, Evansville,         $100,000  Ellsworth                   Lugar
                                   Education (includes FIE)       IN, for education programs including equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Falcon School district 49, Falcon, CO, to support a            $100,000                              Mark Udall; Bennet
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science, technology, engineering and math [STEM]
                                                                  education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         FAME, Inc, Wilmington, DE, to prepare minority students        $125,000  Castle                      Kaufman; Carper
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for college and encourage them to pursue careers in
                                                                  science, engineering, and math
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Family, Inc, Council Bluffs, IA, to support a home             $400,000                              Harkin; Grassley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       visitation program for young children and their
                                                                  families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Farrell Area School District, Farrell, PA for education        $200,000  Altmire
                                   Education (includes FIE)       enrichment programs, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Fayette County Schools, Lexington, KY for a foreign          $2,500,000  Chandler
                                   Education (includes FIE)       language program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Five County Regional Vocational System, Tamms, IL for           $50,000  Costello
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education support services for at-risk students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Franklin County Schools, Russellville, AL for an               $935,000  Aderholt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education technology initiative, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Franklin McKinley School District, San Jose, CA for an         $180,000  Honda
                                   Education (includes FIE)       academic enrichment and college preparation program,
                                                                  which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Girls Incorporated of Alameda County, San Leandro, CA          $250,000  Lee (CA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for a literacy program for young girls, which may
                                                                  include equipment and software
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Glenwood School for Boys and Girls, West Campus, St.           $100,000  Foster
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Charles, IL for an assessment and evaluation system,
                                                                  which may include software and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Golden Apple Foundation, Chicago, IL, to recruit and           $350,000                              Durbin; Burris
                                   Education (includes FIE)       train math and science teachers through summer
                                                                  institutes across Illinois
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Governors State University, University Park, IL for            $200,000  Jackson (IL)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       early childhood education and after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Grand County School District, Moab, UT, for career and         $100,000                              Bennett
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technical education programs including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Harambee Institute, St. Louis, MO for an after-school          $325,000  Clay
                                   Education (includes FIE)       arts education program, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Harcum College, Bryn Mawr, PA for a science,                   $243,000  Gerlach                     Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology, engineering and math education initiative,
                                                                  including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Harford County, Belair, MD, for a science, technology,         $400,000  Kratovil                    Mikulski
                                   Education (includes FIE)       engineering and math education program, including the
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Hawaii Department of Education, Honolulu, HI for its           $700,000  Hirono
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Assistance to Low Performing Schools Project, which
                                                                  may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Hazleton Area School District, Hazleton, PA for                $300,000  Kanjorski
                                   Education (includes FIE)       curriculum development, equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Helen Keller International, New York, NY for the Child       $1,200,000  DeLauro
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Sight Vision Screening Program and to provide
                                                                  eyeglasses to children whose educational performance
                                                                  may be hindered because of poor vision
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District,        $800,000  Hall (NY)                   Schumer
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Highland Falls, NY for science education, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Highline School District, Burien, WA for Aviation High         $335,000  Smith (WA); McDermott
                                   Education (includes FIE)       School, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Homeless Children's Education Fund, Pittsburgh, PA, for        $100,000  Doyle                       Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       afterschool programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Hope Through Housing Foundation, Rancho Cucamonga, CA,         $350,000  Miller, Gary; Tauscher
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an academic tutoring and enrichment initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         I Won't Cheat Foundation, Salt Lake City, UT, for an           $250,000                              Bennett
                                   Education (includes FIE)       anti-steroid education program and awareness campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Indiana State University, Terre Haute, IN, for                 $100,000  Carson (IN); Ellsworth      Lugar
                                   Education (includes FIE)       curriculum development and teacher training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, Ft.           $260,000  Souder
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Wayne, IN for the Strategic Languages Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Indianapolis Public Schools, Indianapolis, IN for              $600,000  Carson (IN)                 Lugar
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education programs including equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Inquiry Facilitators Inc, Bernalillo, NM, for                  $200,000                              Bingaman; Tom Udall
                                   Education (includes FIE)       facilitating student and teacher involvement in a
                                                                  robotics competition
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Institute for Advanced Learning and Research, Danville,        $200,000  Perriello
                                   Education (includes FIE)       VA for an environmental education program, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Institute for Student Achievement, Lake Success, NY for        $150,000  Alexander                   Landrieu
                                   Education (includes FIE)       a school retention and completion initiative at Point
                                                                  Coupee, Louisiana Central Prep High School
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Iowa Association of School Boards, Des Moines, IA, for       $3,550,000                              Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       continuation and expansion of the SKILLS Iowa program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Iowa Department of Education, Des Moines, IA, to             $7,287,000                              Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       continue the Harkin Grant program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Iowa State Education Association, Des Moines, IA, to           $133,000                              Grassley; Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       educate teachers and students on international trade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Irwin County Schools, Ocilla, GA to purchase textbooks         $100,000  Marshall
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ishpeming Public Schools, Ishpeming, MI, to provide            $100,000                              Levin; Stabenow
                                   Education (includes FIE)       wiring and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, for education              $100,000  Michaud                     Collins; Snowe
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, for Mississippi         $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Learning Institute to improve reading and literacy
                                                                  instruction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jawonio, Inc., New York, NY for educational support            $118,000  Lowey; Engel
                                   Education (includes FIE)       services for students with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jazz at Lincoln Center, New York, NY for music                 $800,000  Nadler (NY)                 Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         JFYNetworks, Boston, MA, for the expansion of math,            $150,000  Tierney                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science, and language arts educational programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jobs for Arizona's Graduates, Inc., Scottsdale, AZ for         $150,000  Grijalva; Pastor (AZ)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       dropout prevention and after-school programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Joplin R-VIII School District, Joplin, MO for an               $100,000  Blunt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education technology initiative, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Jumpstart for Young Children, Inc, Boston, MA, for             $100,000  Courtney                    Dodd
                                   Education (includes FIE)       expanding the Jumpstart Connecticut mentoring program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Kanawha County Schools, Charleston, WV, for the                $500,000                              Byrd
                                   Education (includes FIE)       continuation and expansion of Skills West Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Kauai Economic Development Board, Lihue, HI, for               $700,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science, technology, engineering and math education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         KNME-TV, Albuquerque, NM for the Ready to Learn program         $50,000  Heinrich
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Labor of Love Performing Arts Academy, Chicago, IL for         $400,000  Rush
                                   Education (includes FIE)       an after-school arts program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Lafourche Parish School Board, Thibodaux, LA, for              $100,000                              Vitter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment and tech upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Laurinburg Institute, Laurinburg, NC for its math,             $400,000  Kissell
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science, technology and engineering program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Leadership Excellence, Inc., Oakland, CA for a                 $250,000  Lee (CA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       mentoring program for at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Leadership, Education and Athletics in Partnership,            $300,000  DeLauro
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Inc., New Haven, CT for its after-school and mentoring
                                                                  programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Lee Pesky Learning Center, Boise, ID for the Idaho             $350,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Early Literacy Project, which may include the purchase
                                                                  of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Leon County Schools, Tallahassee, FL for its gifted and        $350,000  Boyd                        Nelson, Bill
                                   Education (includes FIE)       talented enrichment program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Literacy Council of West Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for a         $250,000  Davis (AL); Bachus
                                   Education (includes FIE)       literacy program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Little Black Pearl Art and Design Center, Chicago, IL          $300,000  Rush
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an after-school arts program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         LOOKBOTHWAYS, Port Townsend, WA for development of an          $500,000  Reichert; Wasserman         Murray
                                   Education (includes FIE)       internet safety curriculum                                               Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Los Alamos National Lab Foundation, Espanola, NM, for          $100,000                              Tom Udall; Bingaman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       recruitment and training of math and science teachers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Los Angeles Universal Preschool, Los Angeles, CA, to           $150,000  Napolitano                  Boxer
                                   Education (includes FIE)       expand a preschool and teacher training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Lyon County School District, Yerington, NV, to expand          $350,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       distance education, including professional development
                                                                  and the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Maspeth Town Hall, Inc., Maspeth, NY for after-schools         $150,000  Crowley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs for at-risk youth in Queens, NY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Massachusetts 2020, Boston, MA, for the continued              $200,000  Markey (MA)                 Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       development of an extended learning time initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, for                $800,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Education (includes FIE)       engaging girls and historically underrepresented
                                                                  students in science, technology, engineering and math
                                                                  education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Meeting Street, Providence, RI for an early childhood          $900,000  Langevin; Kennedy           Reed; Whitehouse
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Memphis City Schools, Memphis, TN for an after-school          $500,000  Cohen
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Merced County Association of Governments, Merced, CA to        $425,000  Cardoza
                                   Education (includes FIE)       develop a college preparatory program at Buhach Colony
                                                                  High School
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Meskwaki Settlement School, Sac & Fox Tribe of the             $500,000                              Harkin; Grassley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Mississippi in Iowa, Tama, IA, for a culturally based
                                                                  education curriculum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Michigan City Area Schools, Michigan City, IN for              $350,000  Donnelly (IN)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       career and technical education programs, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Millcreek Children Center, Youngstown, OH for an arts          $145,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education program, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Milwaukee Public Schools, Milwaukee, WI for community          $110,000  Moore (WI)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       learning centers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi Building Blocks, Ridgeland, MS, for                $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       establishment of a state-wide early childhood literacy
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS,           $200,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for economic education in k-12 settings
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS,           $100,000                              Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for enhancing K-12 science and mathematics preparation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS,           $750,000  Harper                      Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for the development of an early childhood teacher
                                                                  education delivery system
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi University for Women, Columbus, MS, for            $550,000                              Wicker; Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       expansion of educational outreach for at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi University for Women, Columbus, MS, for            $200,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Science and Mathematics on the Tennessee-Tombigbee
                                                                  Waterway
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Mississippi Writing/Thinking Institute, Mississippi            $200,000                              Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       State, MS, for program development for Mississippi
                                                                  Rural Voices
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Missouri State University, Springfield, MO for the             $150,000  Blunt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Missouri Innovation Academy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Montgomery/Cleveland Avenue YMCA, Montgomery, AL, for          $100,000                              Sessions
                                   Education (includes FIE)       after-school and weekend programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         National Braille Press, Boston, MA, for the development        $200,000  Capuano                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       and deployment of portable Braille devices for blind
                                                                  school-aged children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         National Center for Electronically Mediated Learning,          $150,000  DeLauro
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Inc., Milford, CT for the P.E.B.B.L.E.S. Project,
                                                                  which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         National Council of La Raza, Washington, DC, to improve        $500,000                              Menendez
                                   Education (includes FIE)       the quality and availability of early childhood
                                                                  education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         National Network of Digital Schools Management                 $500,000  Altmire
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Foundation, Beaver, PA for the development of an
                                                                  online education program, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         New Haven Reads Community Book Bank, Inc., New Haven,          $200,000  DeLauro                     Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       CT for its after-school tutoring program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         New York Hall of Science, Queens, NY, for a teacher            $600,000  Ackerman; Crowley           Gillibrand
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         North Carolina Mentoring Partnership, Raleigh, NC, for         $100,000  McIntyre; Watt              Hagan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       mentoring at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC for a             $100,000  Price (NC)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       childrens' engineering and technological literacy
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         North River Commission, Chicago, IL for after school           $100,000  Quigley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       enrichment programs in Chicago public schools located
                                                                  in the North River Commission area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         North Rockland Central School District, Garnerville, NY        $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an English literacy program, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Northern Rockies Educational Services (NRES), Missoula,        $300,000  Rehberg
                                   Education (includes FIE)       MT for the Taking Technology to the Classroom
                                                                  initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Nye County School District, Pahrump, NV, to improve            $425,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science programs in rural middle schools, including
                                                                  the purchase of laboratory equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ogden City School District, Ogden, UT for a teacher            $250,000  Bishop (UT)                 Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ohio Appalachian Center for Higher Education,                  $100,000                              Brown
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Portsmouth, OH, to prepare students for careers and
                                                                  educational opportunities in science, technology, math
                                                                  and engineering
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ohio University, Athens, OH for its Southeast Ohio             $100,000  Wilson (OH); Space
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Center for Excellence in Mathematics and Science
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Old Bridge Township Public Schools, Matawan, NJ for            $200,000  Holt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Orange County Department of Education, Costa Mesa, CA          $400,000  Sanchez, Loretta; Royce
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an Internet safety training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Orchestra Iowa Music Education, Cedar Rapids, IA, to           $400,000  Loebsack                    Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       support a music education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Orem City, UT, for curriculum expansion including the          $100,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ossining Union Free School District, Ossining, NY for          $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       after-school and mentoring initiatives
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Ouachita Parish School Board, Monroe, LA for                   $400,000  Alexander                   Landrieu
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programming at the Northeast Louisiana Family Literacy
                                                                  Interagency Consortium
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Pacific Islands Center for Educational Development,            $500,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Pago Pago, America Samoa, for program development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Palisades Park School District, Palisades Park, NJ for         $150,000  Rothman (NJ)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       its after-school homework program, which may include
                                                                  technology and equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Palm Beach County School District, West Palm Beach, FL         $300,000  Wexler; Hastings (FL);      Nelson, Bill
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for a mentoring program                                                  Klein (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Parents as Teachers of Lake County, Inc., Hammond, IN          $100,000  Visclosky
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for family literacy services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Pasadena Educational Foundation, Pasadena, CA for its          $100,000  Schiff
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Early College High School initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Peaceable Kingdom Retreat for Children, Inc., Killeen,         $255,000  Carter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       TX for educational programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Pegasus Players, Chicago, IL for an arts education             $100,000  Schakowsky
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Piney Woods School, Piney Woods, MS, for science and           $150,000                              Cochran
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Polk County Public Schools, Bartow, FL for purchase of         $150,000  Putnam
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Polynesian Voyaging Society, Honolulu, HI, for                 $300,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Education (includes FIE)       educational programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District, Port              $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Chester, NY for after-school, tutoring, or other
                                                                  activities to implement full service community schools
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Project Cornerstone, San Jose, CA for education and            $226,000  Honda
                                   Education (includes FIE)       enrichment activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Project HOME, Philadelphia, PA, for afterschool                $100,000                              Specter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Prospera Initiatives, Inc., Annandale, VA for a                $200,000  Moran (VA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       mentoring program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Resource Area For Teachers, San Jose, CA for teacher           $200,000  Honda
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training and professional development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Rio Rancho Public Schools, Rio Rancho, NM for teacher          $250,000  Lujan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training and professional development, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         River Region Multicultural Chamber of Commerce, La             $300,000  Melancon
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Place, LA for after-school and summer academic
                                                                  enrichment programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         River Rouge School District, River Rouge, MI for               $200,000  Kilpatrick (MI)             Levin; Stabenow
                                   Education (includes FIE)       transitional services and workforce training for
                                                                  youth, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Riverside Unified School District, Riverside, CA for a         $325,000  Calvert
                                   Education (includes FIE)       science, technology, engineering and mathematics
                                                                  initiative, including curriculum development and
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Rockdale County Public Schools, Conyers, GA for its            $300,000  Johnson (GA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       AVID/Advanced Placement program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Rockdale County Public Schools, Conyers, GA to                 $400,000  Johnson (GA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       establish year-round Pre-K programs, which may include
                                                                  expenses for tuition, transportation, and meals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Rodel Foundation of Delaware, Wilmington, DE for the           $150,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Delaware Parent Leadership Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         San Antonio Youth Centers, San Antonio, TX for after-          $200,000  Gonzalez
                                   Education (includes FIE)       school programs, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         San Jose Unified School District, San Jose, CA for a           $250,000  Honda
                                   Education (includes FIE)       longitudinal data system
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Save the Children, Albuquerque, NM, for a New Mexico           $150,000                              Bingaman; Tom Udall
                                   Education (includes FIE)       rural literacy and afterschool program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Save the Children, Fernley, NV, to expand the Nevada           $250,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Rural Literacy Program, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Save the Children, Washington, DC, for afterschool             $100,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs in Mississippi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Save the Children, Westport, CT for a literacy program         $100,000  Clyburn
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Save the Children, Westport, CT for a rural literacy           $300,000  Melancon                    Landrieu
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program in Washington, St. Martin, and /or Tangipahoa
                                                                  parishes, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         School District of Cheltenham Township, Elkins Park, PA         $50,000  Fattah
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for a dual enrollment program, which may include
                                                                  expenses for tuition and textbooks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Seattle Public Schools, Seattle, WA for a language             $200,000  McDermott
                                   Education (includes FIE)       immersion program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Seattle Science Foundation, Seattle, WA, to expand a           $150,000  McDermott                   Murray
                                   Education (includes FIE)       hands-on medical science program for elementary school
                                                                  students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Self Enhancement, Inc., Portland, OR for a mentoring           $525,000  Blumenauer                  Wyden; Merkely
                                   Education (includes FIE)       and academic enrichment program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Semos Unlimited, Santa Fe, NM, to develop and produce          $100,000                              Tom Udall; Bingaman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Hispanic learning materials
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Shodor Education Foundation, Inc., Durham, NC for its          $200,000  Price (NC)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Computing Mentoring Academic Transitions through
                                                                  Experience, Research, and Service initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Signature Theatre, Arlington, VA for an arts education         $500,000  Moran (VA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Sisters In Struggle, Hempstead, NY for a life-skills           $200,000  McCarthy (NY)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       program for at-risk youth, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Somerset Hills School District, Bernardsville, NJ for          $312,000  Lance                       Menendez
                                   Education (includes FIE)       the Cultural Tolerance Education initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         South Berkshire Educational Collaborative, Great               $250,000  Olver                       Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Barrington, MA for educational enrichment and
                                                                  professional development activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         South Carolina Governor's School for Science and               $275,000  Spratt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Mathematics Foundation, Columbia, SC for academic
                                                                  enrichment programs in science, mathematics,
                                                                  engineering and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         South Salt Lake City, UT, to establish education               $100,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs to expand ESL classes at the Villa Franche
                                                                  apartment complex
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven, CT           $300,000  DeLauro                     Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for its Autism Center for Excellence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, OK        $350,000  Lucas                       Inhofe
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Southwestern University, Georgetown, TX for a summer           $443,000  Granger
                                   Education (includes FIE)       college preparatory program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Special Olympics 2010 USA National Games, Lincoln, NE          $350,000  Fortenberry
                                   Education (includes FIE)       to support the 2010 Special Olympics National Games
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Springboard for Improving Schools, San Francisco, CA           $150,000  Costa
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for teacher training and professional development in
                                                                  one or more school districts in the 20th Congressional
                                                                  district
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Springboard for Improving Schools, San Francisco, CA           $150,000  McKeon
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for the Improving Student Achievement in the Palmdale,
                                                                  CA Elementary School District program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Springboard Schools, San Francisco, CA for teacher             $150,000  Sanchez, Loretta
                                   Education (includes FIE)       training and professional development in the Santa Ana
                                                                  Unified School District
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Sunrise Children's Foundation, Las Vegas, NV, for early        $300,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       childhood education services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, to expand an                $400,000  Maffei                      Schumer; Gillibrand
                                   Education (includes FIE)       afterschool program and extended learning initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Tarrytown Union Free School District, Tarrytown, NY for        $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       programs for at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Terrebonne Parish School Board, Houma, LA, for                 $100,000                              Vitter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       equipment and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Texas A&M University--Commerce, TX for a science,              $100,000  Hall (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology, engineering and math initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Texas State University--San Marcos, TX for the Texas           $350,000  Smith (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Mathworks initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Toledo GROWs, Toledo, OH for a hands-on science based          $300,000  Kaptur
                                   Education (includes FIE)       curriculum in urban areas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Trimble Local School District, Glouster, OH for an             $175,000  Space
                                   Education (includes FIE)       after-school program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Tulsa Public Schools, Tulsa, OK for the Tulsa Academic         $350,000  Sullivan
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         United Way of Miami-Dade, Miami, FL for the Center of          $300,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Wasserman     Nelson, Bill
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Excellence in Early Education, including teacher                         Schultz
                                                                  training programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         United Way of Youngstown/Mahoning Valley, Youngstown,          $100,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       OH for an early childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of Houston, Houston, TX for teacher training        $400,000  Jackson-Lee (TX)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       and professional development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, for the National            $165,000                              Grassley; Harkin
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Institute for Twice-Exceptionality
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of Nebraska -- Kearney, Kearney, NE for             $350,000  Smith (NE)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA, for                $150,000  Scalise                     Landrieu; Vitter
                                   Education (includes FIE)       supporting and developing charter and district-run
                                                                  public schools in New Orleans through teacher
                                                                  education, leadership preparation, applied research
                                                                  and policy, in cooperation with Tulane University
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of North Carolina at Greensboro, Greensboro,        $165,000  Miller (NC); Coble
                                   Education (includes FIE)       NC for the ON TRACK mathematics enrichment program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of North Florida, Jacksonville, FL for the          $250,000  Crenshaw; Brown, Corrine
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Virtual School Readiness Incubator
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA, for              $750,000  Braley                      Harkin; Grassley
                                   Education (includes FIE)       developing a center on early childhood education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,           $200,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for gifted education programs at the Frances Karnes
                                                                  Center for Gifted Studies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Upper Palmetto YMCA, Rock Hill, SC for an environmental        $225,000  Spratt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education program, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Urban Assembly New York Harbor High School, Brooklyn,          $150,000                              Gillibrand
                                   Education (includes FIE)       NY, for a marine science and marine technology program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 353, Wellington, KS, Public Schools for technology         $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       upgrades and teacher training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 373, Newton, Kansas Public Schools for technology          $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 402, Augusta, KS Public Schools for technology             $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 446, Independence, KS Public Schools for technology        $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       upgrades and teacher training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 470, Arkansas City, KS Public Schools for                  $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       technology upgrades, professional development and
                                                                  training/technical assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         USD 490, Butler County, KS for technology upgrades and         $250,000  Tiahrt
                                   Education (includes FIE)       teacher training at the El Dorado, KS public school
                                                                  system
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Utah Valley University, Orem, UT, to establish an              $250,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       entrepreneurship program for high school students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Washoe County School District, Reno, NV, to expand a           $500,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       new teacher mentoring program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Washoe County School District, Reno, NV, to support            $500,000                              Reid
                                   Education (includes FIE)       instructional coaches for K-12 teachers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Wayne State University, Detroit, MI for its science,           $300,000  Kilpatrick (MI)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       engineering, mathematics, aerospace academy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         We Care San Jacinto, San Jacinto, CA for an afterschool        $100,000  Lewis (CA)
                                   Education (includes FIE)       tutoring program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Weber State University, Ogden, UT, for teacher                 $500,000  Bishop (UT)                 Bennett; Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       education and curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         West New York Board of Education, West New York, NJ, to        $150,000  Sires                       Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   Education (includes FIE)       launch an alternative fuel education program,
                                                                  including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         West Valley City, UT, to expand an at-risk youth               $100,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   Education (includes FIE)       afterschool program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Western Oklahoma State College, Altus, OK for purchase         $100,000  Lucas                       Inhofe
                                   Education (includes FIE)       of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         WhizKids Foundation, Inc, Cambridge, MA, to expand             $100,000  Markey (MA)                 Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Education (includes FIE)       math, science, and engineering programs for primary
                                                                  school students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Wings of Eagles, Horseheads, NY for a Regional Science,        $275,000  Massa
                                   Education (includes FIE)       Technological, Engineering, and Math Academy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         YMCA Espanola Teen Center, Los Alamos, NM, to provide          $125,000                              Tom Udall; Bingaman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       academic and enrichment support for at-risk youth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         YMCA of Warren, Warren, OH for an after-school program         $100,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   Education (includes FIE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         Yonkers Public Schools, Yonkers, NY for Saturday               $297,000  Lowey
                                   Education (includes FIE)       academies, music education, and teacher professional
                                                                  development activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Elementary & Secondary         YWCA of the Harbor Area and South Bay, San Pedro, CA           $300,000  Harman
                                   Education (includes FIE)       for an early childhood education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     AB Christian Learning Center, Ft. Worth, TX for a              $175,000  Burgess
                                   FIPSE)                         higher education resource center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     AIB College of Business, Des Moines, IA, to continue           $400,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         recruiting and training captioners and court reporters
                                                                  and to provide scholarships to students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Alamo Community College, San Antonio, TX for an                $200,000  Rodriguez
                                   FIPSE)                         associates degree program for air traffic controllers,
                                                                  which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Albany State University, Albany, GA for a model program        $150,000  Bishop (GA)
                                   FIPSE)                         to increase the recruitment and retention of
                                                                  underrepresented students in postsecondary education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Alcorn State University, Alcorn, MS, for graduate level        $300,000                              Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Alexander City Chamber of Commerce Foundation,                 $100,000  Rogers (AL)
                                   FIPSE)                         Alexander City, AL for the Gateway to Education
                                                                  Scholarship program, including scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Alverno College, Milwaukee, WI for its Research Center         $100,000  Moore (WI)
                                   FIPSE)                         for Women and Girls, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Anne Arundel Community College, Hanover, MD for its            $350,000  Ruppersberger
                                   FIPSE)                         science, technology, engineering, and math initiative,
                                                                  which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Anoka Ramsey Community College, Coon Rapids, MN for            $800,000  Paulsen                     Klobuchar; Franken
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development in programs relating to the
                                                                  medical device manufacturing industry, including
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Armstrong Atlantic State University Cyber Security             $457,000  Kingston                    Chambliss; Isakson
                                   FIPSE)                         Research Institute Foundation, Savannah, GA for
                                                                  curriculum development, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Asnuntuck Community College, Enfield, CT for a Medical         $250,000  Courtney
                                   FIPSE)                         Device Machine Technology Certificate Program, which
                                                                  may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Assumption College, Worcester, MA, for the acquisition         $100,000  McGovern                    Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         of educational equipment and information technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Beloit College, Beloit, WI for college scholarships and        $150,000  Baldwin
                                   FIPSE)                         college outreach and early awareness programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Benedictine University, Lisle, IL, to design, create,          $150,000                              Durbin
                                   FIPSE)                         and implement open source educational materials for
                                                                  use in introductory college courses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Blackburn College, Carlinville, IL, for science                $225,000  Hare                        Durbin; Burris
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs and laboratory upgrades, including
                                                                  the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Blue Mountain College, Blue Mountain, MS, for the              $100,000                              Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of math and science equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Blue Mountain Community College, Pendleton, OR, to             $100,000                              Wyden; Merkley
                                   FIPSE)                         expand post-secondary education including college
                                                                  preparatory, advanced degree and continuing education
                                                                  programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Brandeis University, Waltham, MA for science and               $350,000  Markey (MA)                 Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         technology academic programs, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Brazosport College, Galveston, TX for purchase of              $200,000  Paul
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment to be used in the petrochemical and nuclear
                                                                  technician training programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Brazosport College, Lake Jackson, TX for curriculum            $380,000  Paul
                                   FIPSE)                         development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Brescia University, Owensboro, KY, for education               $500,000                              Bunning
                                   FIPSE)                         programs including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Briar Cliff University, Sioux City, IA for purchase of         $100,000  King (IA)                   Harkin; Grassley
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Buena Vista University, Storm Lake, IA, for support for        $200,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         students with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Burcham Hills Retirement Community, East Lansing, MI to        $200,000  Rogers (MI)                 Levin; Stabenow
                                   FIPSE)                         develop an Alzheimer's and dementia training program,
                                                                  including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Butler Community College, El Dorado, KS for purchase of        $500,000  Tiahrt                      Brownback
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Caldwell College, Caldwell, NJ for curriculum                  $550,000  Frelinghuysen               Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   FIPSE)                         development, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     California Baptist University, Riverside, CA for               $300,000  Calvert
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     California State University, Fullerton, CA for                 $350,000  Royce
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development associated with the Vietnamese
                                                                  language and culture program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     California State University, Fullerton, CA for the             $300,000  Royce
                                   FIPSE)                         Center for the Advancement of Teaching and Learning in
                                                                  Mathematics and Science
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     California State University, Sacramento, CA for                $350,000  Matsui
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology for science laboratories
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Campbell University, Buies Creek, NC for an initiative         $300,000  Etheridge
                                   FIPSE)                         at its School of Pharmacy to train underrepresented
                                                                  pharmacists
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Canisius College, Buffalo, NY for its science education        $400,000  Higgins; Lee (NY)           Schumer
                                   FIPSE)                         program, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, for                $100,000                              Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         Internet-based foreign language programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Cedar Crest College, Allentown, PA, for science                $100,000                              Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Center for Empowered Living and Learning, Denver, CO,          $300,000  Perlmutter                  Bennet
                                   FIPSE)                         for an education program on terrorism
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Central Maine Community College, Auburn, ME for its            $150,000  Michaud
                                   FIPSE)                         Veterans to College Initiative to provide academic
                                                                  counseling and support to veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Centralia College, Centralia, WA for biotechnology and         $375,000  Baird
                                   FIPSE)                         science equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Chestnut Hill College, Philadelphia, PA, for the Center        $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         for Environmental Sciences and Sustainability
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Cheyney University of Pennsylvania, Cheyney, PA for its        $100,000  Sestak
                                   FIPSE)                         Keystone Honors Academy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     City College of San Jose, CA for its California                $368,000  Honda
                                   FIPSE)                         Construction College to train students for careers in
                                                                  construction management, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Clackamas Community College, Oregon City, OR for               $400,000  Schrader                    Wyden; Merkely
                                   FIPSE)                         education and training programs in renewable energy
                                                                  fields, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Clarke College, Dubuque, IA for its Doctor of Nurse            $400,000  Braley (IA)                 Harkin; Grassley
                                   FIPSE)                         Practitioner program, which may include equipment,
                                                                  technology and scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Cleveland State University, Cleveland, OH, for                 $200,000  Fudge                       Brown
                                   FIPSE)                         supportive services to degree-seeking veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Coahoma Community College, Clarksdale, MS for                   $50,000  Thompson (MS)
                                   FIPSE)                         curricula, equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Coffeyville Community College, Coffeyville, KS for the         $500,000  Tiahrt
                                   FIPSE)                         Native American Center, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     College of Southern Idaho, Twin Falls, ID for                  $200,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     College of the Canyons, Santa Clarita, CA for the              $100,000  McKeon
                                   FIPSE)                         University Center Consortium, including curriculum
                                                                  development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     College Opportunity Resources for Education,                   $750,000  Fattah
                                   FIPSE)                         Philadelphia, PA for college preparation and
                                                                  scholarship assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     College Success Foundation, Washington, DC, for                $500,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         mentoring and scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     College Summit-West Virginia, Dunbar, WV for a college         $100,000  Capito
                                   FIPSE)                         access initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Colorado State University--Pueblo, Pueblo, CO, for STEM        $125,000  Salazar                     Mark Udall; Bennet
                                   FIPSE)                         programs, including equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Columbia College, Columbia, SC for its Masters Degree          $200,000  Clyburn                     Graham
                                   FIPSE)                         Program in Divergent Learning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Columbus State University, Columbus, GA for a Science,         $150,000  Bishop (GA)                 Chambliss
                                   FIPSE)                         Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Command and General Staff College Foundation,                  $250,000                              Roberts; Brownback
                                   FIPSE)                         Leavenworth, KS, for curriculum and course development
                                                                  for a homeland security masters degree program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Community College of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh, PA,         $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         to support technical and career postsecondary
                                                                  education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Community College of Rhode Island, Warwick, RI, for a          $200,000                              Reed
                                   FIPSE)                         transition to college program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Community College System of New Hampshire, Concord, NH,        $500,000                              Gregg; Shaheen
                                   FIPSE)                         to purchase equipment and technology to modernize the
                                                                  teaching of nursing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     County of Greensville, Emporia, VA, for equipment and          $400,000                              Webb; Warner
                                   FIPSE)                         technology upgrades at the Southside Virginia
                                                                  Education Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Creighton University, Omaha, NE for purchase of                $500,000  Terry
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Dallas County Community College District, Dallas, TX           $300,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice
                                   FIPSE)                         for its Science, Technology, Engineering and
                                                                  Mathematics (STEM) Professions Initiative, which may
                                                                  include scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Dean College, Franklin, MA for its Embedded Study Model        $150,000  McGovern
                                   FIPSE)                         Project to integrate academic support services into
                                                                  curricula, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for teacher             $300,000                              Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         training in science and curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Dickinson State University, Dickinson, ND, for its             $600,000  Pomeroy                     Conrad; Dorgan
                                   FIPSE)                         Theodore Roosevelt Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Donnelly College, Kansas City, KS for equipment and            $200,000  Moore (KS)
                                   FIPSE)                         technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Eastern Arizona College, Thatcher, AZ for the Gila             $400,000  Kirkpatrick (AZ)
                                   FIPSE)                         Community College nursing education program, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Eastern New Mexico University, Portales, NM, for               $100,000                              Tom Udall; Bingaman
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment and technology infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Edmonds Community College, Lynwood, WA for equipment           $600,000  Inslee                      Cantwell; Murray
                                   FIPSE)                         for training programs at its National Advanced
                                                                  Materials and Manufacturing Innovation Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Edward M Kennedy Institute for the Senate, Boston, MA,      $13,602,000  Markey (MA)                 Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         for program development, which may include equipment,
                                                                  technology, and support for an endowment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Elgin Community College, Elgin, IL for the Health              $100,000  Roskam; Foster
                                   FIPSE)                         Careers Center of Excellence, including curriculum
                                                                  development and purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Emerson College, Boston, MA, for educational equipment         $250,000  Capuano                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Emmanuel College, Boston, MA, for educational equipment        $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology infrastructure to support the Center
                                                                  for Science Education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Endicott College, Beverly, MA, for educational                 $150,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Evergreen State College, Olympia, WA for its Curriculum        $325,000  Baird; Dicks; Smith (WA)    Murray
                                   FIPSE)                         for the Bioregion initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Fairleigh Dickenson University, Madison, NJ for                $500,000  Frelinghuysen               Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Florida Gulf Coast University, Ft. Myers, FL for the           $350,000  Mack
                                   FIPSE)                         Coastal Watershed Institute
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Ft. Hays State University, Hays, KS for purchase of            $250,000  Moran (KS)
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Fulton-Montgomery Community College, Johnstown, NY, to         $200,000                              Schumer
                                   FIPSE)                         establish a Center for Engineering and Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Gadsden State Community College, Gadsden, AL for               $100,000  Rogers (AL); Aderholt
                                   FIPSE)                         technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     George C. Wallace Community College, Dothan, AL for            $200,000  Bright
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology to train energy technicians
                                                                  for nuclear facilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Goodwin College, East Hartford, CT, for an                     $175,000  Larson (CT)                 Dodd; Lieberman
                                   FIPSE)                         environmental studies program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Gordon College, Wenham, MA, for educational equipment          $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Grace College and Theological Seminary, Winona Lake, IN        $150,000  Souder
                                   FIPSE)                         for curriculum development, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Harrisburg University of Science and Technology,               $400,000  Holden                      Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         Harrisburg, PA, for curriculum development and for
                                                                  laboratory upgrades, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Hawaii Community College, Hilo, HI, for supportive             $500,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   FIPSE)                         services and classroom courses to prepare students
                                                                  unprepared for postsecondary education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Hill College, Hillsboro, TX for vocational training at         $200,000  Edwards (TX)
                                   FIPSE)                         the Bosque County campus, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Huntingdon College, Montgomery, AL, for teacher                $100,000                              Sessions
                                   FIPSE)                         training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX for a math and         $350,000  Doggett
                                   FIPSE)                         science education initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Hutchinson Community College, Hutchinson, KS for               $250,000  Moran (KS)                  Brownback
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Illinois Community College Trustee Association,                $600,000  Hare
                                   FIPSE)                         Springfield, IL for the Illinois Community College
                                                                  Sustainability Network to promote and provide energy
                                                                  education and sustainable practices
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Iowa Lakes Community College, Estherville, IA, for a           $400,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         training program in construction technology and wind
                                                                  turbine technology, including equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown,          $165,000  Latham                      Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         IA for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Iowa Valley Community College District, Marshalltown,          $400,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         IA, for a training program in agricultural and
                                                                  renewable energy technology, including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Itawamba Community College, Fulton, MS for                     $700,000  Childers                    Wicker
                                   FIPSE)                         consolidation of the Tupelo and Fulton Nursing School
                                                                  Programs in order to provide additional nursing
                                                                  specialists to a five-county region
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana, Northwest               $100,000                              Lugar
                                   FIPSE)                         Region, Indianapolis, IN, for education programs
                                                                  including equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Ivy Tech Community College, Terre Haute, IN for                $600,000  Ellsworth                   Lugar
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology for training programs at its
                                                                  Advanced Manufacturing Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Jacksonville State University, Jacksonville, AL for            $250,000  Rogers (AL)
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Jewish Employment and Vocational Service (JEVS) d/b/a          $165,000  Schwartz
                                   FIPSE)                         JEVS Human Services, Philadelphia, PA for an associate
                                                                  degree program in court reporting, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Johnson C. Smith University, Charlotte, NC for an              $400,000  Watt
                                   FIPSE)                         Undergraduate Research Center for Electronic and Cyber
                                                                  Security, which may include equipment, technology and
                                                                  student financial assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Jones County Junior College, Ellisville, MS, for               $200,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Junior College District of Metropolitan Kansas City,           $500,000                              Bond
                                   FIPSE)                         Kansas City, MO, for purchase of equipment and
                                                                  technology upgrades for the radiological technology
                                                                  laboratory
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse          $100,000  Upton
                                   FIPSE)                         Services, Kalamazoo, MI for a nursing distance
                                                                  education curriculum, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Kalamazoo Valley Community College, Kalamazoo, MI for          $550,000  Upton                       Stabenow; Levin
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Kankakee Community College, Kankakee, IL for renewable         $400,000  Halvorson
                                   FIPSE)                         energy technology training programs, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Keene State College, Keene, NH for its Regional Center         $300,000  Hodes
                                   FIPSE)                         for Advanced Manufacturing Education, which may
                                                                  include equipment and student financial assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Keene State College, Keene, NH, for curriculum                 $100,000  Hodes                       Shaheen
                                   FIPSE)                         development and educational equipment for the
                                                                  Monadnock Biodiesel Collaborative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Kern Community College District, Bakersfield, CA for           $250,000  McCarthy (CA)
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lackawanna College, Scranton, PA, for laboratory               $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         upgrades to a science center, including the purchase
                                                                  of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lake Area Technical Institute, Watertown, SD, for              $500,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson; Thune
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment for the Energy Technology
                                                                  Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lake Area Technical Institute, Watertown, SD, for              $150,000                              Johnson
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment related to fire training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, MI for curriculum        $150,000  Upton
                                   FIPSE)                         development, including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lake Superior College, Duluth, MN for certificate and          $200,000  Oberstar                    Klobuchar; Franken
                                   FIPSE)                         degree programs in aviation, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lakes Region Community College, Concord, NH, for               $125,000  Shea-Porter                 Shaheen
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development and educational equipment for
                                                                  the Energy Services and Technology program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lakeshore Technical College, Cleveland, WI for                 $250,000  Petri
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Leeward Community College, Pearl City, HI, to provide          $400,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   FIPSE)                         college preparatory education for Filipino students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lesley University, Cambridge, MA, for development of           $150,000  Capuano                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         the National Center for Teachers and School Leaders
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     LeTourneau University, Longview, TX for purchase of            $350,000  Gohmert
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lincoln Land Community College, Springfield, IL for the        $350,000  Shimkus; Schock
                                   FIPSE)                         HIRE Education Program, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lincoln University, Lincoln University, PA, for college        $100,000                              Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         preparation programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Livingstone College, Salisbury, NC for its Center for          $300,000  Watt
                                   FIPSE)                         Holistic Learning to provide academic and student
                                                                  support services, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Long Island University, Brookville, NY for a Grow Your         $700,000  Israel
                                   FIPSE)                         Own Teacher Program providing mentoring, education and
                                                                  support to high school students in underserved areas,
                                                                  which may include college scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lorain County Community College, Elyria, OH, for               $200,000  Sutton                      Voinovich
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs including the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Loras College, Dubuque, IA, for science education              $200,000  Braley (IA)                 Harkin; Grassley
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Los Angeles City College Foundation, Los Angeles, CA           $450,000  Becerra
                                   FIPSE)                         for the Los Angeles City College nursing program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Loyola University New Orleans, New Orleans, LA, to             $400,000  Cao                         Landrieu
                                   FIPSE)                         establish The Center for Music and Arts
                                                                  Entrepreneurship & Music Industry Studies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Lyndon State College, Lyndonville, VT, for a center for        $300,000                              Leahy
                                   FIPSE)                         rural students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Madisonville Community College, Madisonville, KY for           $100,000  Whitfield
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Marian University, Fond du Lac, WI for nursing                 $200,000  Petri
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Maricopa County Community College District, Mesa, AZ           $100,000  Mitchell
                                   FIPSE)                         for health professions training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Maricopa County Community College District, Tempe, AZ          $300,000  Mitchell
                                   FIPSE)                         for its East Valley Veterans Education Center to
                                                                  enable veterans to enroll in and complete
                                                                  postsecondary education, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Maricopa County Community College District, Tempe, AZ          $300,000  Pastor (AZ)
                                   FIPSE)                         for the Bilingual Nursing Program at South Mountain
                                                                  Community College, which may include stipends
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Marshall University Research Corporation, Huntington,          $300,000  Rahall
                                   FIPSE)                         WV for equipment and technology for advanced maritime
                                                                  training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Marymount Manhattan College, New York, NY for academic         $400,000  Maloney
                                   FIPSE)                         programs at the Geraldine Farraro Center for
                                                                  Educational Excellence in Science, Technology, and
                                                                  Math, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Marymount University, Arlington, VA for science                $200,000  Moran (VA)
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Maryville College, Maryville, TN for an experiential           $300,000  Duncan
                                   FIPSE)                         science education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mercyhurst College, Erie, PA, for education programs           $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         and support services for individuals with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Metropolitan State College, Denver, CO for equipment           $200,000  DeGette
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology for its accredited aviation training
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mid-America Christian University, Oklahoma City, OK for        $485,000  Cole
                                   FIPSE)                         teacher training programs, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, TN for        $750,000  Gordon (TN)                 Alexander
                                   FIPSE)                         a STEM education teacher training initiative, which
                                                                  may include stipends
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Midland Independent School District, Midland, TX for           $350,000  Conaway
                                   FIPSE)                         teacher training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Midway College, Inc, Midway, KY, for facilities and            $100,000                              Bunning
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Miles Community College, Miles City, MT, for curriculum        $100,000                              Tester; Baucus
                                   FIPSE)                         development and educational equipment relating to
                                                                  bioenergy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, Office of           $300,000  Walz                        Klobuchar; Franken
                                   FIPSE)                         the Chancellor, St Paul, MN, for career and education
                                                                  services to veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Minot State University, Minot, ND, to establish a              $950,000                              Conrad; Dorgan
                                   FIPSE)                         Center for Community Research and Service
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mississippi College, Clinton, MS, to support dyslexia          $250,000                              Wicker; Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         education and training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mississippi Valley State University, Itta Bena, MS for         $400,000  Thompson (MS)               Wicker
                                   FIPSE)                         an initiative to prepare undergraduate students for
                                                                  professional medical education, which may include
                                                                  equipment, technology and scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Missouri State University, Springfield, MO, for              $1,000,000                              Bond
                                   FIPSE)                         technology, equipment, and educational materials
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY for an Academy         $275,000  Massa
                                   FIPSE)                         for Veterans' Success to provide academic, career
                                                                  counseling, and support services to veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY to establish a         $325,000  Lee (NY)
                                   FIPSE)                         medical laboratory technician program, including
                                                                  curriculum development and purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Monroe County Community College, Monroe, MI for a              $200,000  Dingell
                                   FIPSE)                         Nuclear Engineering Technology Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mott Community College, Flint, MI, for the Center for          $200,000                              Levin; Stabenow
                                   FIPSE)                         Advanced Manufacturing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Mount Union College, Alliance, OH for engineering and          $100,000  Boccieri
                                   FIPSE)                         technology programs, which may include curricula,
                                                                  faculty, equipment, technology and student support
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA, for a civic                 $100,000  Dent                        Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         engagement and service learning program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     National Labor College, George Meany Center for Labor          $400,000                              Harkin
                                   FIPSE)                         Studies, Silver Spring, MD, for the Adult Learning
                                                                  Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Nazareth College, Rochester, NY, for educational               $300,000  Slaughter                   Schumer
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology upgrades relating to math and
                                                                  science education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Neumann College, Aston, PA for pharmacy education              $200,000  Sestak; Gerlach             Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         programs, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     New College, Sarasota, FL for digital collections at           $100,000  Buchanan                    Nelson, Bill
                                   FIPSE)                         the Jane Bancroft Cook Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, NM for its             $300,000  Teague
                                   FIPSE)                         Native American Criminal Justice Program, which may
                                                                  include student scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Niagara Community College, Sanborn, NY for equipment           $100,000  Slaughter
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology for training programs in hospitality
                                                                  and tourism
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Niagara County Community College, Sanborn, NY for              $275,000  Lee (NY)
                                   FIPSE)                         information technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     North Arkansas College, Harrison, AR for an education          $250,000  Boozman                     Pryor; Lincoln
                                   FIPSE)                         technology initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     North Shore Community College, Danvers, MA for a               $400,000  Tierney
                                   FIPSE)                         veterans education and job training program, which may
                                                                  include scholarships and stipends
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northampton Community College, Bethlehem, PA for               $400,000  Kanjorski
                                   FIPSE)                         programmatic support of its Monroe County campus,
                                                                  which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northeast Iowa Community College, Calmar, IA, for a            $300,000                              Harkin; Grassley
                                   FIPSE)                         training program in renewable energy technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northern Kentucky University Foundation, Highland              $350,000  Davis (KY)
                                   FIPSE)                         Heights, KY for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights, KY, for      $2,400,000                              McConnell
                                   FIPSE)                         the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northern Virginia Community College, Annandale, VA for         $500,000  Connolly (VA)
                                   FIPSE)                         a health information management program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Northwestern Connecticut Community College, Winsted, CT        $350,000  Larson (CT)
                                   FIPSE)                         for an associate degree nursing program, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK for a                $450,000  Boren
                                   FIPSE)                         wildlife management technician program, which may
                                                                  include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Palm Beach Community College, Lake Worth, FL for               $150,000  Klein (FL); Wexler
                                   FIPSE)                         education and training programs in emerging industries
                                                                  at its Institute for Energy, which may include
                                                                  equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Palm Beach Community College, Lake Worth, FL for               $350,000  Hastings (FL)               Nelson, Bill
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology for student technology and
                                                                  communication programs at its Belle Glade campus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Pearl River Community College, Poplarville, MS, for            $200,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   FIPSE)                         instructional technology including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Philadelphia University, Philadelphia, PA, for                 $100,000                              Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment relating to science
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Pittsburg State University, Pittsburg, KS, for                 $400,000                              Brownback
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Polk Community College, Winter Haven, FL for purchase          $300,000  Putnam
                                   FIPSE)                         of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Portland Community College, Portland, OR for education         $350,000  Wu; Blumenauer; Schrader
                                   FIPSE)                         and training programs in renewable energy and emerging
                                                                  industries, which may include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Pulaski Technical College, North Little Rock, AR for           $600,000  Snyder                      Lincoln; Pryor
                                   FIPSE)                         library improvements, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Rhode Island College Foundation, Providence, RI, for           $200,000                              Reed; Whitehouse
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment relating to science
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Richland Community College, Decatur, IL for curriculum         $200,000  Schock; Hare
                                   FIPSE)                         development in its bioenergy and bioprocessing degree
                                                                  programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Riverside Community College District, Riverside, CA for        $600,000  Calvert
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Rockford College, Rockford, IL, for technology upgrades        $300,000  Manzullo                    Durbin
                                   FIPSE)                         and educational equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Rutgers University School of Law, Camden, NJ, for its          $500,000  Andrews
                                   FIPSE)                         public interest legal program, which may include
                                                                  scholarships and fellowships, a public interest summer
                                                                  externship program, its Marshall Brennan Program, and
                                                                  pro bono legal services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Saint Xavier University, Chicago, IL, for technology           $750,000  Lipinski                    Durbin
                                   FIPSE)                         and equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Salve Regina University, Newport, RI for equipment and         $500,000  Kennedy                     Reed; Whitehouse
                                   FIPSE)                         technology at its Blackstone Valley learning center
                                                                  and Newport campus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA for a        $350,000  Speier
                                   FIPSE)                         competency-based early childhood education and
                                                                  training initiative, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     San Jacinto College, Pasadena, TX for training programs        $400,000  Green, Gene
                                   FIPSE)                         in the maritime and energy industries, which may
                                                                  include equipment and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     San Jose State University Research Foundation, San             $220,000  Lofgren, Zoe
                                   FIPSE)                         Jose, CA for an interdisciplinary Center for Global
                                                                  Innovation and Immigration, including curricula
                                                                  development and student research
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     San Luis Obispo County Community College District, San         $350,000  McCarthy (CA)
                                   FIPSE)                         Luis Obispo, CA for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     San Mateo County Community College District, San Mateo,        $350,000  Speier
                                   FIPSE)                         CA for the University Center Consortium initiative to
                                                                  expand academic programs and the number of students
                                                                  pursuing postsecondary education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Santa Fe College, Gainesville, FL for a clinical               $450,000  Stearns; Brown, Corrine
                                   FIPSE)                         laboratory sciences program, including curriculum
                                                                  development and purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Seattle University, Seattle, WA for the Fostering              $500,000  Reichert; McDermott         Cantwell
                                   FIPSE)                         Scholars Program, including scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Security on Campus, Inc, King of Prussia, PA, for a            $100,000                              Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         campus crime and emergency response training program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Simpson College, Indianola, IA, for the creation of the        $500,000                              Harkin; Kennedy; Kerry
                                   FIPSE)                         John C Culver Public Policy Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Snow College, Ephraim, UT, for health professions              $600,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau, MO        $500,000  Emerson
                                   FIPSE)                         for technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Southern Arkansas University Tech, Camden, AR, for             $150,000  Ross                        Lincoln; Pryor
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development and educational equipment in
                                                                  the Aerospace Manufacturing program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL for               $400,000  Costello
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Southern Queens Park Association, Jamaica, NY for its          $350,000  Meeks (NY)                  Schumer; Gillibrand
                                   FIPSE)                         Young Adults College Access & Preparedness Program, in
                                                                  partnership with Bard College and local high schools,
                                                                  to expand college access, retention and graduation for
                                                                  youth and young adults
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Southern Union Community College, Wadley, AL for               $100,000  Rogers (AL)
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Special Education District of McHenry County,                  $100,000  Manzullo
                                   FIPSE)                         Woodstock, IL for the Pathways Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Clair County Community College, Port Huron, MI for         $100,000  Miller (MI)
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Francis College, Brooklyn, NY for its Project              $650,000  Clarke; King (NY); Towns    Schumer
                                   FIPSE)                         Access initiative, which may include equipment and
                                                                  technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Joseph's College, Brooklyn, NY for equipment and           $400,000  Towns
                                   FIPSE)                         technology for science laboratories, smart classrooms
                                                                  and distance learning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Mary's College of Maryland, St. Mary's City, MD for        $600,000  Hoyer
                                   FIPSE)                         science laboratory and information technology
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Norbert College, De Pere, WI for an initiative to          $910,000  Kagen                       Kohl
                                   FIPSE)                         prepare students in science, technology, engineering
                                                                  and math (STEM) fields, which may include equipment
                                                                  and technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ for equipment and         $300,000  Sires; Rothman (NJ)         Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   FIPSE)                         technology for smart classrooms
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Petersburg College, Clearwater, FL for a healthcare        $300,000  Young (FL)
                                   FIPSE)                         informatics program, including curriculum development
                                                                  and purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Thomas University, Miami Gardens, FL for a science         $300,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln; Meek
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology teacher training program in conjunction                   (FL); Ros-Lehtinen;
                                                                  with the Miami-Dade County Public School System                          Wasserman Schultz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Vincent College, Latrobe, PA for purchase of               $150,000  Murphy, Tim                 Specter
                                   FIPSE)                         equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     St. Xavier University, Orland Park, IL for the Science,        $500,000  Biggert
                                   FIPSE)                         Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Education
                                                                  Center, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     State University of New York at Geneseo, Geneseo, NY           $500,000  Lee (NY)
                                   FIPSE)                         for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA, for science           $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs and laboratory upgrades, including
                                                                  the purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Tabor College, Hillsboro, KS, for rural nursing and            $350,000                              Brownback
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Tallahassee Community College, Tallahassee, FL for             $200,000  Crenshaw
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Texas Life-Sciences Collaboration Center, Georgetown,          $245,000  Carter
                                   FIPSE)                         TX for life science programs, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Texas State Technical College, Waco, TX for its Career         $100,000  Edwards (TX)
                                   FIPSE)                         Paths for Veterans project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Texas State University, San Marcos, TX for nursing           $1,000,000  Carter
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development, including purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Three Rivers Community College, Poplar Bluff, MO for an        $215,000  Emerson
                                   FIPSE)                         education technology initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Trident Technical College, Charleston, SC for the              $500,000  Brown (SC); Clyburn
                                   FIPSE)                         nursing education program, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Trine University, Angola, IN for curriculum development        $340,000  Souder                      Lugar
                                   FIPSE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Truckee Meadows Community College, Reno, NV, to                $600,000                              Reid
                                   FIPSE)                         establish an online degree program for non-traditional
                                                                  students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Union County College, Cranford, NJ for curriculum              $400,000  Lance; Payne                Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   FIPSE)                         development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ for the Disability           $500,000  Grijalva
                                   FIPSE)                         Resource Center to provide instruction and support to
                                                                  disabled veterans to ensure academic success, which
                                                                  may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Arkansas at Monticello, Monticello, AR,          $250,000                              Lincoln; Pryor
                                   FIPSE)                         for educational equipment, technology and wiring
                                                                  relating to energy and environmental education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Central Arkansas, Conway, AR, for                $100,000  Snyder                      Lincoln; Pryor
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development and educational equipment
                                                                  relating to information technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Connecticut School of Law, Hartford, CT          $365,000  Larson (CT)
                                   FIPSE)                         for a Center for Energy and Environmental Law
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Dubuque, Dubuque, IA, for equipment and          $400,000  Braley (IA)                 Harkin; Grassley
                                   FIPSE)                         technology for its aviation degree program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Guam, Mangilao, GU for development, in           $300,000  Bordallo
                                   FIPSE)                         conjunction with the Guam Public School System and
                                                                  Guam Community College, of a K-16 educational program
                                                                  to provide a seamless pathway for college and careers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Hawaii at Hilo Clinical Pharmacy Training      $1,500,000  Abercrombie                 Inouye; Akaka
                                   FIPSE)                         Program, Hilo, HI, for a clinical pharmacy training
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Hawaii School of Law, Honolulu, HI, for          $400,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   FIPSE)                         the health policy center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL,        $150,000                              Durbin
                                   FIPSE)                         to design, create, and implement open source
                                                                  educational materials for use in introductory college
                                                                  courses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Massachusetts-Boston, Boston, MA, for            $200,000  Lynch                       Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         educational equipment to support a developmental
                                                                  science research center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Massachusetts-Lowell, Lowell, MA, for a          $200,000  Tsongas                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         cooperative education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Minnesota, Crookston, MN for its Center          $550,000  Peterson                    Klobuchar; Franken
                                   FIPSE)                         for Rural Entrepreneurial Studies, which may include
                                                                  equipment, technology and student support
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Montana--Mike & Maureen Mansfield Center,        $200,000  Rehberg                     Tester
                                   FIPSE)                         Missoula, MT, to establish the Institute for
                                                                  Leadership and Public Service to fulfill the purposes
                                                                  of the Mansfield Center, including the creation of an
                                                                  endowment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH for its                $450,000  Shea-Porter
                                   FIPSE)                         National Center on Inclusive Education for Children
                                                                  with Autism Spectrum Disorders and Related
                                                                  Disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of New Haven, Waterbury, CT for equipment           $350,000  DeLauro
                                   FIPSE)                         and technology for the Henry C. Lee Institute of
                                                                  Forensic Science Learning Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of New Mexico-Taos, NM for equipment and            $450,000  Lujan                       Bingaman; Udall, Tom
                                   FIPSE)                         technology for distance education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, to identify        $500,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson; Thune
                                   FIPSE)                         and address the educational needs of veterans with
                                                                  disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,           $200,000                              Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         for curriculum and professional development at
                                                                  University of Southern Mississippi-Gulf Coast campus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,           $100,000                              Cochran
                                   FIPSE)                         for teacher training at the Center for Economic
                                                                  Education
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,           $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   FIPSE)                         for the development of a student retention initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, Chattanooga, TN        $770,000  Wamp
                                   FIPSE)                         for the Center for Leadership in Science, Technology,
                                                                  Engineering and Mathematics Education, including
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, TX for a science,         $300,000  Gohmert                     Cornyn
                                   FIPSE)                         technology, engineering and math initiative, including
                                                                  purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Virginia Center for Politics,                    $100,000                              Warner
                                   FIPSE)                         Charlottesville, VA, to develop interactive civic
                                                                  lessons for high school students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Virginia, Wise, VA for installation of a         $150,000  Boucher
                                   FIPSE)                         Voice Over Internet Protocol telephone system and
                                                                  demonstration activities through its Emerging
                                                                  Technologies Learning Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of Washington, Bothell, WA for a nursing            $200,000  Inslee; McDermott           Murray
                                   FIPSE)                         faculty consortium training program, which may include
                                                                  scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL, for                 $650,000  Miller (FL)                 Martinez
                                   FIPSE)                         education programs for veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Urban College, Boston, MA, to support higher education         $500,000                              Kennedy; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         programs serving low-income and minority students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Utah State University, Logan, UT, to establish a land-         $750,000                              Bennett
                                   FIPSE)                         grant education and research network
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Valley City State University, Valley City, ND, for the         $750,000  Pomeroy                     Conrad; Dorgan
                                   FIPSE)                         Great Plains STEM Education Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Vanguard University, Costa Mesa, CA for a teacher              $350,000  Rohrabacher
                                   FIPSE)                         training initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Voices of September 11th, New Canaan, CT, to continue          $100,000  DeLauro; Himes; Murphy      Dodd; Lautenberg;
                                   FIPSE)                         the 9/11 Living Memorial Project                                         (CT)                        Menendez; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Wayne State College, Norfolk, NE for equipment at the          $100,000  Fortenberry                 Nelson, Ben
                                   FIPSE)                         South Sioux City College Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Weber State University, Ogden, UT, for curriculum              $100,000                              Hatch; Bennett
                                   FIPSE)                         development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Western Governors University, Salt Lake City, UT for           $600,000  Bishop (UT); Matheson       Bennett; Hatch
                                   FIPSE)                         curriculum development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Western Kentucky Community and Technical College,              $250,000  Whitfield                   Bunning
                                   FIPSE)                         Paducah, KY for purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Western Kentucky University Research Foundation,             $2,000,000                              McConnell
                                   FIPSE)                         Bowling Green, KY, for equipment purchase
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, KY for             $500,000  Guthrie
                                   FIPSE)                         purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Westminster College, Salt Lake City, UT, to expand             $500,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   FIPSE)                         distance learning technology including the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Wharton County Jr. College, Wharton, TX for curriculum         $220,000  Paul
                                   FIPSE)                         development to train students for work in the nuclear
                                                                  power industry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Wheelock College, Boston, MA, to develop a higher              $100,000  Capuano                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   FIPSE)                         education access program for early childhood educators
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Whitworth University, Spokane, WA, for science,                $100,000                              Cantwell
                                   FIPSE)                         technology, engineering, and mathematics equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC for its Focusing on         $350,000  Spratt
                                   FIPSE)                         Collegiate Undergraduate Success initiative to enhance
                                                                  residential learning and academic support services for
                                                                  students
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Higher Education (includes     Youngstown State University, Youngstown, OH for its            $200,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   FIPSE)                         Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) Project to integrate
                                                                  SEL theory and techniques into the College of
                                                                  Education curricula and for evaluation activities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      AbilityFirst, Pasadena, CA for programs to provide             $100,000  Schiff
                                   Disability Research            employment assistance for individuals with
                                                                  disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      American Federation for the Blind Technology and             $1,000,000                              Byrd
                                   Disability Research            Employment Center, Huntington, WV, to expand the
                                                                  capacity of the AFB-TECH center for development of
                                                                  technology for the blind
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Best Buddies Maryland, Baltimore, MD for mentoring             $300,000  Hoyer
                                   Disability Research            programs for persons with intellectual disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Best Buddies Massachusetts, Boston, MA for mentoring            $70,000  Capuano
                                   Disability Research            programs in the 8th Congressional district for persons
                                                                  with intellectual disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Best Buddies Virginia, Falls Church, VA for mentoring          $250,000  Moran (VA)
                                   Disability Research            programs for persons with intellectual disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Best Buddies, San Francisco, CA for mentoring programs         $250,000  Pelosi
                                   Disability Research            for persons with intellectual disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Camp High Hopes, Sioux City, IA, for a year-round camp         $300,000                              Harkin
                                   Disability Research            for children with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Deaf Blind Service Center, Seattle, WA, for training           $200,000                              Murray
                                   Disability Research            programs and materials for support service providers
                                                                  who assist deaf blind individuals with employment and
                                                                  independent living
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Elwyn, Inc., Aston, PA, for job training and education         $100,000                              Specter
                                   Disability Research            programs for individuals with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Enable America, Inc., Tampa, FL, for civic/citizenship         $600,000                              Harkin
                                   Disability Research            demonstration project for disabled adults
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Intellectual Disabilities Education Association, Inc.,         $225,000  Himes                       Dodd
                                   Disability Research            Bridgeport, CT, for IDEA Learning Center programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL for a training        $600,000  Foster
                                   Disability Research            program to prepare instructors to work with visually
                                                                  impaired veterans, which may include scholarships
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Opportunity Enterprises, Inc., Valparaiso, IN for its          $150,000  Visclosky
                                   Disability Research            adult day program, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Southern California Rehabilitation Services, Downey, CA        $100,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Disability Research            for computer and Internet training for individuals
                                                                  with disabilities, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Southside Training, Employment and Placement Services,         $300,000  Perriello
                                   Disability Research            Inc., Farmville, VA for training, employment services,
                                                                  and placement assistance for persons with
                                                                  disabilities, which may include equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Special Olympics of Rhode Island, Warwick, RI for              $200,000  Kennedy
                                   Disability Research            delivering programs and promoting physical fitness
                                                                  among individuals with disabilities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Supporting Autism and Families Everywhere, Wilkes-             $100,000                              Specter
                                   Disability Research            Barre, PA, for vocational services and program support
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Vocational Guidance Services-- Painesville Center,             $100,000  LaTourette                  Voinovich
                                   Disability Research            Painesville, OH for the Training Enhancements
                                                                  Promoting Jobs for Ohioans with Disabilities project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education           Rehabilitation Services &      Wisconsin Coalition of Independent Living Centers,             $150,000  Baldwin
                                   Disability Research            Inc., Madison, WI for its Increase Vets' Independence
                                                                  Initiative to provide independent living services to
                                                                  disabled veterans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Addison County Parent Child Center, Middlebury, VT, to         $100,000                              Sanders
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      support and expand parental education activities
                                   Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    County of Contra Costa, Martinez, CA for an initiative         $550,000  Tauscher; McNerney          Boxer
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      for children and adolescents exposed to domestic
                                   Abuse Prevention               violence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Douglas County C.A.R.E.S., Roseburg, OR for the Kids in        $300,000  DeFazio                     Wyden; Merkely
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      Common program to provide services to abused and
                                   Abuse Prevention               neglected children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Klingberg Family Centers, Hartford, CT, for child abuse        $125,000                              Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      prevention and intervention services
                                   Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Marcus Autism Center, Atlanta, GA for an autism                $300,000  Kingston; Barrow; Bishop
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      initiative                                                               (GA); Lewis (GA)
                                   Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Oregon Association of Relief Nurseries, Medford, OR, to        $100,000                              Merkley; Wyden
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      provide early childhood development and education for
                                   Abuse Prevention               children at risk of abuse and neglect
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Parents Anonymous, Inc, Claremont, CA, for a national          $500,000                              Gillibrand; Boxer;
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      parent helpline to prevent child abuse and neglect                                                   Lautenberg; Lincoln;
                                   Abuse Prevention                                                                                                                    Menendez; Schumer;
                                                                                                                                                                       Stabenow; Wyden; Levin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Prevent Child Abuse Vermont, Montpelier, VT, to expand         $500,000                              Leahy
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      the SAFE-T Prevention Program
                                   Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    University of California, Merced/The Great Valley              $300,000  Cardoza
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      Center, Merced, CA for child abuse prevention
                                   Abuse Prevention               education services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Wynona's House, Newark, NJ, for a child sexual abuse           $400,000  Payne                       Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Child      intervention program
                                   Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    211 Maine, Inc, Portland, ME, to provide for telephone         $150,000                              Snowe
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     connections to community health and social services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Asian Pacific Women, Los Angeles, CA for a domestic             $50,000  Schiff
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     violence prevention and education initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    AVANCE, Inc, San Antonio, TX, for a parent-child               $200,000  Gonzalez                    Bingaman; Tom Udall
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     education program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Barry University, Miami Shores, FL for the Center for          $300,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln; Meek
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Community Services Initiatives                                           (FL)
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Beth El House, Alexandria, VA for housing and social           $200,000  Moran (VA)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     services to formerly homeless single mothers and their
                                   Services                       families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Bethany House, Laredo, TX for equipment and job                $230,000  Cuellar
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     training resources to help the unemployed find gainful
                                   Services                       employment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Bethel's Place, Houston, TX for the Heavenly Hands             $100,000  Green, Al
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     community project
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Beyond Shelter, Los Angeles, CA for a crisis                   $400,000  Waters
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     intervention demonstration project
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Campus Kitchens Project, Washington, DC, for services           $75,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     to the homeless community
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Chabad of South Bay, Lomita, CA for a project to               $370,000  Harman
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     improve services for youth and families in crisis
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters Health             $500,000  Nye                         Webb
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     System, Norfolk, VA for a comprehensive program to
                                   Services                       treat abused children
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    City of Bellevue, WA for the Wrap-Around Services              $375,000  Reichert                    Murray
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    City of Emeryville, CA for early childhood development,        $250,000  Lee (CA)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     counseling, and related services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    City of Ft. Worth, TX for the Early Childhood Matters          $425,000  Burgess
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    City of Norwich, CT for services to pregnant and                $85,000  Courtney
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     parenting adolescents and their families
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    City of San Jose, CA, for early childhood education            $300,000  Honda                       Feinstein
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     improvement
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Connecticut Council of Family Service Agencies,                $200,000  DeLauro                     Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Wethersfield, CT, for a Family Development Network
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Connecting for Children and Families, Inc, Woonsocket,         $300,000                              Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     RI, to provide training and assistance to economically
                                   Services                       challenged families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Council of Peoples Organization, Brooklyn, NY for the          $150,000  Weiner
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Community Youth Program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    County of Monterey, Salinas, CA, for the Silver Star         $1,500,000  Farr                        Feinstein
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Gang Prevention and Intervention program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Easter Seals of Southern Georgia, Albany, GA for               $100,000  Bishop (GA)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     respite services for children who are developmentally
                                   Services                       disabled, have autism, or are medically fragile
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Erie Neighborhood House, Chicago, IL, for an initiative        $250,000                              Durbin
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     addressing the needs of low-income children with
                                   Services                       emotional or behavioral difficulties
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Eva's Place, Sandusky, MI for domestic violence service        $200,000  Miller (MI)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    First 5 Alameda County, San Leandro, CA for its                $500,000  Stark
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     children's screening, assessment, referral, and
                                   Services                       treatment initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Friends Association for Care and Protection of                 $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Children, West Chester, PA, for emergency services for
                                   Services                       homeless families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Glenwood School for Boys and Girls, Glenwood, IL for           $350,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     housing support and educational and social skills
                                   Services                       development programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Greater New Britain Teen Pregnancy Prevention, Inc.,           $100,000  Murphy (CT)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     New Britain, CT for teen pregnancy prevention services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Gregory House Programs, Honolulu, HI for a                     $100,000  Abercrombie
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     comprehensive homelessness prevention program for
                                   Services                       people living with HIV/AIDS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Homeless Prenatal Program, San Francisco CA for case           $400,000  Pelosi
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     management and supportive services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Hope Institute for Children and Families, Springfield,         $100,000  Shimkus
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     IL for facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Horizons for Homeless Children, Boston, MA for programs        $730,000  Capuano                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     for homeless children
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Human Services Coalition of Tompkins County, Inc.,              $50,000  Arcuri
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Ithaca, NY for 2-1-1 Tompkins to provide access to
                                   Services                       social services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Huron County Safe Place, Bad Axe, MI for domestic              $150,000  Miller (MI)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     violence service programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Jewish Community Council of Canarsie, Brooklyn, NY for         $300,000  Towns
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     services for at-risk Holocaust survivors
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Lapeer Area Citizens Against Domestic Assault, Lapeer,         $200,000  Miller (MI)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     MI for domestic violence service programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Larkin Street Youth Services, San Francisco, CA for            $300,000  Pelosi
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     homeless and runaway youth services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    LifeStyles of Maryland, Inc., La Plata, MD for its Safe         $60,000  Hoyer
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Nights Program for homeless and disadvantaged
                                   Services                       populations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Little Friends, Inc., Naperville, IL for an autism             $200,000  Biggert
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Make the Road New York, Jackson Heights, NY for support        $300,000  Crowley                     Schumer
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     services for low-income and working families
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Michigan Association Of United Ways, Lansing, MI, to           $200,000  Schauer                     Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     provide work supports through a statewide 2-1-1 system
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Montgomery County Department of Health and Human               $200,000  Edwards (MD)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Services, Rockville, MD for community based service
                                   Services                       delivery and outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    National Energy Assistance Directors' Association,             $200,000  DeLauro
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Washington, DC for research and information
                                   Services                       dissemination related to the Low Income Home Energy
                                                                  Assistance Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    North Ward Center, Newark, NJ for comprehensive                $400,000  Sires
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     services for people with autism spectrum disorders
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Pathways PA, Holmes, PA for services for pregnant and          $150,000  Sestak                      Specter
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     parenting teens
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Pierce County Alliance, Tacoma, WA for a program to            $150,000  Dicks
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     expedite the permanent placement of child victims of
                                   Services                       parental abuse or neglect
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Polaris Project, Washington, DC for the New Jersey             $250,000  Smith (NJ)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Trafficking Intervention Program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD for a               $165,000  Van Hollen; Edwards (MD)    Cardin
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     program for transition aged youth
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Provo City, UT, for a mentoring program for at-risk            $350,000                              Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     families
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Safe Horizons, Port Huron, MI for domestic violence            $200,000  Miller (MI)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     service programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Salvation Army San Bernardino Center for Worship and           $160,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Service, San Bernardino, CA for the Support Family
                                   Services                       Services Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Santa Clara Family Health Plan, Campbell, CA for a             $300,000  Honda
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     program to transfer medically fragile and severely
                                   Services                       developmentally disabled individuals from an
                                                                  institutional setting
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    SingleStop USA, New York, NY, to help low-income               $150,000                              Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     families and individuals in New Jersey access
                                   Services                       available services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    SingleStop USA, San Francisco, CA for a program to             $100,000  Pelosi
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     increase low-income households' access to social
                                   Services                       services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Somerset Home for Temporarily Displaced Children,              $400,000  Holt                        Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Bridgewater, NJ for a transitional/permanent housing
                                   Services                       program for youth who have aged out of foster care
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Susanna Wesley Family Learning Center, East Prairie, MO        $250,000  Emerson
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     to assist at-risk youth and their families
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    TLC for Children and Families, Inc, Olathe, KS, for            $200,000  Moore (KS)                  Brownback; Roberts
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     youth transitional living programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    United Methodist Children's Home of Alabama and West           $100,000  Aderholt                    Sessions
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Florida, Selma, AL, for expansion and related expenses
                                   Services                       for children's services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    United Way Anchorage, Anchorage, AK, for the Alaska 2-1-       $100,000                              Begich; Murkowski
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     1 referral system
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    United Way of Central Maryland, Baltimore, MD, to              $800,000  Ruppersberger               Mikulski
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     provide social services through the 2-1-1 Maryland
                                   Services                       Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    United Way of the Capital Area, Jackson, MS, for 2-1-1         $400,000                              Cochran
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Mississippi
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL for the West             $355,000  Bonner
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Alabama Autism Outreach Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg, MO for            $280,000  Skelton
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     services for people with Autism Spectrum Disorders
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    University of Toledo, Toledo, OH for services for              $500,000  Kaptur
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     persons with autism and research on autism spectrum
                                   Services                       disorders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Washington Asset Building Coalition, Olympia, WA, to           $100,000                              Murray
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     expand financial education and counseling services to
                                   Services                       low-income residents
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Washington Information Network, Renton, WA, to improve         $100,000                              Murray
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     and expand 2-1-1 referral services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    Wayne County Department of Children and Family                 $150,000  Conyers; Kilpatrick (MI)    Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     Services, Detroit, MI for the Kids-TALK forensic
                                   Services                       interviewing project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration for Children    YWCA of Monterey County, Monterey, CA for expansion of         $250,000  Farr
 Services                          and Families (ACF)--Social     direct services and prevention programs to combat
                                   Services                       domestic and gang violence
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Catholic Charities Hawaii, Honolulu, HI for an                 $400,000  Abercrombie
 Services                                                         independent living demonstration project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Center on Halsted, Chicago, IL for wellness services           $475,000  Quigley
 Services                                                         for seniors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  City of Fremont, CA for training, coordination, and            $150,000  Stark
 Services                                                         outreach to address the needs of seniors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  City of Long Beach, CA for a program to coordinate             $100,000  Richardson
 Services                                                         senior services and activities within the region
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  County of Ventura, CA for an elder abuse prevention and        $654,000  Gallegly
 Services                                                         treatment program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Family Caregiver Alliance, San Francisco, CA for a             $500,000  Pelosi
 Services                                                         National Resource Center on Family Caregiving
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Gallagher Outreach Program Inc, Sunnyside, NY, for             $200,000                              Schumer
 Services                                                         outreach and social services to elderly Irish
                                                                  immigrants
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Family and Children's Service of Minneapolis,           $250,000  Paulsen; Ellison            Franken
 Services                                                         Minnetonka, MN for the Family Caregiver Access Network
                                                                  Demonstration Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Family Service of Central New Jersey, Elizabeth,        $300,000  Lance; Sires                Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                                                         NJ for an aging-in-place demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Family Service of Metropolitan Detroit, West            $200,000  Peters                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                                                         Bloomfield, MI for a family caregiver services
                                                                  development project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Family Service of Somerset, Hunterdon and Warren        $225,000  Lance                       Menendez
 Services                                                         Counties, Somerville, NJ for an aging-in-place
                                                                  demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Family Services of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, for        $300,000                              Bennett; Hatch
 Services                                                         community-based caregiver services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Jewish Federation of Greater Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, for         $100,000  Lewis (GA)                  Chambliss
 Services                                                         services at a naturally occurring retirement community
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Lifespan of Greater Rochester, Inc, Rochester, NY, for         $100,000                              Schumer
 Services                                                         activities to prevent elder abuse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Mosaic, Garden City, KS, for the legacy senior services        $350,000  Moran (KS)                  Brownback; Roberts
 Services                                                         initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  NORC Supportive Services Center, Inc., New York, NY for        $500,000  Nadler (NY)
 Services                                                         a program to provide medical products and services to
                                                                  seniors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Rebuilding Together, Inc., Washington, DC for the Safe         $350,000  Hoyer
 Services                                                         at Home falls prevention initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Stetson University College of Law, Gulfport, FL for a          $100,000  Young (FL)
 Services                                                         demonstration program to educate seniors on economic
                                                                  issues
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  UJA Federation of Northern New Jersey, Paramus, NJ for         $200,000  Garrett (NJ); Pascrell;     Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                                                         an aging-in-place program                                                Rothman (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  United Jewish Communities of MetroWestNJ, Whippany, NJ         $100,000  Pascrell                    Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                                                         for the Lifelong Involvement for Vital Elders
                                                                  independent aging demonstration program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Washoe County Senior Services, Carson City, NV, for the        $195,000                              Reid
 Services                                                         RSVP Home Companion Senior Respite Care Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Administration on Aging (AOA)  Westminster Village, Allentown, PA for the Demential           $225,000  Dent
 Services                                                         Leadership Initiative Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Access Community Health Network, Chicago, IL for a             $200,000  Jackson (IL); Schakowsky
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           program to reduce cancer disparities through
                                                                  comprehensive early detection
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    AIDS Community Resources, Inc, Syracuse, NY, for HIV/          $300,000  Maffei                      Schumer
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           AIDS education and prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Alameda County Department of Public Health, Office of          $300,000  Lee (CA)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           AIDS, Oakland, CA for an HIV/AIDS prevention and
                                                                  testing initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Alliance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics, Boston, MA        $100,000  Lynch
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for a comprehensive program to review antibiotic
                                                                  resistance trends, interventions, and prevention
                                                                  methods, including a public information campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Allina Hospitals and Clinics, Minneapolis, MN for a            $250,000  Walz                        Franken
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           heart disease prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    American Red Cross, San Juan, PR for testing the Puerto        $400,000  Pierluisi
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Rico blood supply for the dengue virus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Betty Jean Kerr Peoples Health Center, St. Louis, MO           $150,000  Clay
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for the prostate cancer screening program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Broward County, Ft. Lauderdale, FL for a pediatric             $275,000  Hastings (FL)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           mortality public awareness campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Center for International Rehabilitation, Washington,           $150,000                              Harkin
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           DC, for the disability rights monitor program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Children's Health Fund, New York, NY for health                $100,000  Rangel                      Gillibrand
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           assessments, outreach, and education services for
                                                                  children and their families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    City of Laredo, TX for a community health assessment           $200,000  Cuellar
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Community Health Centers in Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, for          $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           the Childhood Rural Asthma Project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    County of Essex, Newark, NJ, for diabetes prevention           $125,000  Rothman (NJ); Sires         Menendez; Lautenberg
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           and management program for severely mentally ill
                                                                  individuals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    County of Marin, San Rafael, CA for research and               $200,000  Woolsey
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           analysis related to breast cancer incidence and
                                                                  mortality in the county and breast cancer screening
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    East Carolina University, Greenville, NC for a program         $400,000  Butterfield                 Hagan; Burr
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           to reduce health disparities through chronic disease
                                                                  management
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Eastern Maine Health Systems, Brewer, ME, for emergency        $640,000                              Collins; Snowe
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           preparedness planning and equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    El Puente, Inc., Brooklyn, NY for a youth and family           $500,000  Velazquez
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           wellness program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Family Hospice and Palliative Care, Pittsburgh, PA for         $100,000  Murphy, Tim                 Specter
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           the Center for Compassionate Care Education Outreach
                                                                  program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus                    $50,000  Moran (VA)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Foundation, Lake Success, NY for glaucoma screenings
                                                                  in Northern Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Ft. Valley State University, Ft. Valley, GA for a food         $100,000  Bishop (GA)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           and nutrition education program (EFNEP) aimed at
                                                                  curbing obesity, particularly among young minorities
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Haitian American Association Against Cancer, Inc.,             $300,000  Meek (FL)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Miami, FL for cancer education, outreach, screening,
                                                                  and related programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Healthy People Northeast Pennsylvania Initiative,              $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Clarks Summit, PA, for obesity prevention and
                                                                  education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Huntington Breast Cancer Action Coalition, Huntington,         $100,000  Israel                      Schumer
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           NY for providing services and programs to underserved
                                                                  populations on how to reduce the risks of cancer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Inland Northwest Health Services, Spokane, WA for a            $350,000  McMorris Rodgers
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           public health surveillance initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    International Rett Syndrome Foundation, Cincinnati, OH         $180,000  Hoyer
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for education and awareness programs regarding Rett
                                                                  Syndrome
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Iowa Chronic Care Consortium/Des Moines University, Des        $200,000  Latham; Boswell             Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Moines, IA for a preventive health initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Kalihi-Palama Health Center, Honolulu, HI, for                 $150,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           outreach, screening and education related to renal
                                                                  disease
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Kaweah Delta Hospital Foundation, Visalia, CA, for a           $100,000                              Boxer
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           comprehensive asthma management program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    La Familia Medical Center, Santa Fe, NM, for diabetes          $100,000                              Bingaman; Tom Udall
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           education and outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Latino Health Access, Santa Ana, CA for a youth obesity        $150,000  Sanchez, Loretta
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Lupus LA, Los Angeles, CA for increasing public                $250,000  Roybal-Allard
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           awareness of lupus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Mario Lemieux Foundation, Bridgeville, PA for the              $100,000  Murphy, Tim
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Hodgkin's Disease Patient and Public Education
                                                                  Outreach Initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Mary Bird Perkins Cancer Center, Baton Rouge, LA, to           $600,000  Scalise                     Vitter; Landrieu
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           expand early detection cancer screening
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, TN for        $400,000  Gordon (TN)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           a program to improve the physical fitness of children
                                                                  and adolescents in Middle Tennessee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Morgan State University, Baltimore, MD for a program to        $200,000  Cummings
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           understand the social determinants and the impact of
                                                                  health disparities on the health of urban and
                                                                  underserved populations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    National Marfan Foundation, Port Washington, NY for an         $250,000  Ackerman
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           awareness and education campaign for Marfan Syndrome
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Nevada Cancer Institute, Las Vegas, NV for cancer              $600,000  Berkley; Titus              Reid
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           education and outreach services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    New York Junior Tennis League, Woodside, NY for a              $250,000  Crowley
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           childhood obesity program for high-risk youth from low-
                                                                  income families
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Northeast Regional Cancer Institute, Scranton, PA, for         $100,000  Carney; Kanjorski           Specter; Casey
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           a regional cancer registry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL, for the           $200,000  Gutierrez; Jackson (IL)     Durbin; Burris
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           development of a comprehensive diabetic program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Ohio University, Athens, OH, for diabetes outreach and         $200,000                              Voinovich; Brown
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           education in rural areas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Padres Contra El Cancer, Los Angeles, CA for                   $250,000  Berman
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           educational resources and outreach programs to serve
                                                                  families with children with cancer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    PE4life Foundation, Kansas City, MO, for expansion and         $300,000                              Harkin
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           assessment of PE4life programs across Iowa
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Pednet Coalition, Inc, Columbia, MO, for obesity               $500,000                              Bond
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           prevention programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Penn State University, Milton S Hershey Medical Center,        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Hershey, PA, for a stroke prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Polycystic Kidney Disease Foundation, Kansas City, MO          $100,000  Wasserman Schultz
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for developing education and awareness programs about
                                                                  chronic kidney disease
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Prevent Blindness Florida, Tampa, FL for the See the           $200,000  Bilirakis; Boyd; Grayson    Nelson, Bill
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Difference Vision Screening Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Puerto Rican Cultural Center, Chicago, IL for an HIV/          $100,000  Gutierrez; Quigley
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           AIDS outreach and education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Pulmonary Hypertension Association, Silver Spring, MD          $250,000  Brady (TX)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for a pulmonary hypertension prevention and awareness
                                                                  initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    San Antonio Metropolitan Health District, San Antonio,         $500,000  Gonzalez
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           TX for a program to assess the health behaviors of the
                                                                  Kelly community and address health issues such as lead
                                                                  poisoning, asthma, and indoor pollutants
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Schneider Children's Hospital, New Hyde Park, NY for           $300,000  McCarthy (NY)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           comprehensive Diamond Blackfan Anemia awareness and
                                                                  surveillance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Shelby County Community Services, Memphis, TN for an           $200,000  Cohen
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           infant mortality prevention and education program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Silent Spring Institute, Newton, MA for studies of the         $350,000  Delahunt                    Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           impact of environmental pollutants on breast cancer
                                                                  and women's health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    South Carolina HIV/AIDS Council, Columbia, SC for an           $200,000  Clyburn
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           HIV/AIDS prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD, for              $150,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson; Thune
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           research on health promotion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Spinal Muscular Atrophy Foundation, New York, NY, for          $500,000                              Harkin; Schumer
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           outreach, patient education and registries
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    State of Maryland Department of Health and Mental            $1,200,000  Cummings; Edwards (MD)      Mikulski; Cardin
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Hygiene, Baltimore, MD, for the Unified Oral Health
                                                                  Education Message Campaign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Texas AgriLife Extension Service, College Station, TX          $300,000  Granger
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for a youth obesity prevention initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Texas Tech University Health Science Center, Lubbock,          $200,000  Conaway
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           TX for the West Texas Center for Influenza Research,
                                                                  Education and Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Thundermist Health Center, Woonsocket, RI for the              $200,000  Kennedy                     Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           active teen challenge project to reduce childhood
                                                                  obesity
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    UMOS, Inc., Milwaukee, WI for a teen pregnancy and             $100,000  Moore (WI)
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           sexually transmitted infections prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, to           $450,000  Fortenberry                 Ben Nelson
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           develop an environmental health informatics database
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, NV, to          $800,000                              Reid
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           establish a diabetes management program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM for a                $350,000  Heinrich                    Bingaman; Udall, Tom
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           prevention program aimed at reducing diabetes-related
                                                                  heart and blood vessel diseases in New Mexico
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, for a           $300,000  Price (NC)                  Burr; Hagan
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           racial disparities and cardiovascular disease
                                                                  initiative
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,              $500,000  Green, Al; Jackson-Lee
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Houston, TX for a comprehensive cancer control program                   (TX)
                                                                  to address the needs of minority and medically
                                                                  underserved populations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of Texas-Pan American, Edinburg, TX for             $250,000  Hinojosa
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           research and education activities at the South Texas
                                                                  Border Health Disparities Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee School of Public             $900,000  Moore (WI)                  Kohl
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Health, Milwaukee, WI, to support and expand public
                                                                  health education and outreach programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Valentine Boys and Girls Club of Chicago, Chicago, IL          $150,000  Lipinski
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           for a health and physical education program to prevent
                                                                  obesity and promote healthy development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Visiting Nurses Association, Council Bluffs, IA for a          $350,000  King (IA)                   Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           telehealth initiative, including purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Waterloo Fire Rescue, Waterloo, IA, for FirePALS, a            $150,000                              Harkin
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           school-based injury prevention program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Watts Healthcare Corporation, Los Angeles, CA for a            $250,000  Sanchez, Linda
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           project to improve breastfeeding rates
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Winston-Salem State University, Winston-Salem, NC, for         $100,000  Watt                        Hagan
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           blood pressure and obesity screening programs,
                                                                  including training of healthcare professionals
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Yale New Haven Health Center, New Haven, CT, for the           $150,000  DeLauro                     Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           Connecticut Center for Public Health Preparedness
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Disease Control    Youth & Family Services, Inc, Rapid City, SD, for a            $300,000                              Johnson; Thune
 Services                          and Prevention (CDC)           health promotion program for young men
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Bi-State Primary Care Association, Concord, NH, to             $600,000  Hodes; Shea-Porter          Gregg; Shaheen
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      support uncompensated care to treat uninsured and
                                   Research & Demonstration       underinsured patients
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Bi-State Primary Care Association, Montpelier, VT to           $100,000  Welch
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      treat uninsured patients
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Bi-State Primary Care, Concord, NH, for primary care           $650,000  Hodes; Shea-Porter          Gregg; Shaheen
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      workforce recruitment
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       County of Ventura Health Care Agency, Ventura, CA for          $200,000  Capps
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      Medicaid enrollment programs
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Fond du Lac County, WI for the Save a Smile Program            $400,000  Petri
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Iowa Dental Association, Johnston, IA, for a children's        $250,000  Braley (IA)                 Harkin
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      dental home demonstration project in Scott County
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Jewish Healthcare Foundation, Pittsburgh, PA for               $100,000  Doyle
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      program to increase involvement of pharmacists in
                                   Research & Demonstration       chronic disease management
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       Patient Advocate Foundation, Newport News, VA for a            $300,000  Scott (VA)                  Webb
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      patient assistance program for the uninsured
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Centers for Medicare and       University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the             $500,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Medicaid Services (CMS)--      Medication Use and Outcomes Research Group
                                   Research & Demonstration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Adams State College, Alamosa, CO, for facilities and           $125,000  Salazar                     Mark Udall; Bennet
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment related to nurse training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital, Barrington, IL for             $70,000  Bean
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Advocate South Suburban Hospital, Hazel Crest, IL for          $300,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Advocates for a Healthy Community, Inc., Springfield,          $750,000  Blunt                       Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MO for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Akron Children's Hospital, Akron, OH for facilities and        $250,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, Anchorage, AK,       $1,000,000                              Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, Anchorage, AK,       $2,000,000                              Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for training dental health care workers
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Alexandria Neighborhood Health Services, Inc.,                 $500,000  Moran (VA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Alexandria, VA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Alivio Medical Center, Chicago, IL, for facilities and       $1,000,000  Gutierrez                   Durbin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  All Children's Hospital, St. Petersburg, FL for                $350,000  Bilirakis
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, for                $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA, for            $300,000  Inslee; McDermott; Smith    Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment                                                                (WA)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Allied Services Foundation, Clarks Summit, PA, for             $100,000  Kanjorski                   Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        rehabilitation equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Alton Memorial Hospital, Alton, IL for facilities and          $250,000  Costello
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Altoona Regional Health System, Altoona, PA, for               $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  AMDEC Foundation, New York, NY, for facilities and             $100,000                              Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment relating to medical research
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Oncologic Hospital, Fox Chase Cancer Center,        $1,000,000  Hoyer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Philadelphia, PA for facilities and equipment for the
                                   Health Facilities and          American Russian Cancer Alliance
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Optometric Association, Alexandria, VA, to            $500,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        expand vision screening programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Optometric Association, Saint Louis, MO, to            $90,000                              Harkin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        expand vision screening programs in Iowa
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Prosthodontic Society Foundation, Osceola             $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Mills, PA, for scholarships and program costs related
                                   Health Facilities and          to training in prosthetic dentistry and clinical
                                   Services                       prosthodontics
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Red Cross Southeastern MI Blood Services              $200,000  Kilpatrick (MI)             Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Region, Detroit, MI, for blood donation programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  American Red Cross, Columbus, OH, for purchase of              $200,000                              Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        vehicles to serve rural areas
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Anchorage Neighborhood Health Center, Anchorage, AK for        $100,000  Young (AK)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Anchorage Project Access, Anchorage, AK, for health            $125,000                              Begich; Murkowski
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        care coordination and supplies
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Angelina College, Lufkin, TX for purchase of equipment         $200,000  Gohmert                     Cornyn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Anna Jacques Hospital, Newburyport, MA, for health             $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, for facilities        $100,000                              Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment related to rural health
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Arcadia Methodist Hospital, Arcadia, CA for an                 $750,000  Dreier
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Arkansas Department of Health, Little Rock, AR, for            $240,000                              Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Marshallese Health
                                   Health Facilities and          Clinic
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Arkansas Methodist Medical Center, Paragould, AR for           $100,000  Berry
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Asher Community Health Center, Fossil, OR, for                 $200,000                              Wyden; Merkley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ashtabula County Council on Aging, Inc., dba Ashtabula         $250,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Senior Center, Ashtabula, OH for facilities and
                                   Health Facilities and          equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Asian Health Services, Oakland, CA for facilities and          $275,000  Lee (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Association for Utah Community Health, Salt Lake City,       $1,350,000  Matheson                    Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        UT for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Athol Memorial Hospital, Athol, MA for facilities and          $250,000  Olver
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Atlantic Health System, Morristown, NJ for facilities          $750,000  Frelinghuysen               Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  AtlantiCare, Egg Harbor Township, NJ for facilities and        $200,000  LoBiondo                    Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Autism New Jersey, Ewing, NJ, for an autism patient            $100,000  Rothman (NJ); Smith (NJ)    Menendez; Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        navigator project
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Avis Goodwin Community Health Center, Dover, NH for            $225,000  Shea-Porter                 Shaheen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bacharach Institute for Rehabilitation, Pomona, NJ for         $250,000  LoBiondo                    Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bacon County Hospital, Alma, GA for facilities and             $993,000  Kingston
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Baltimore Medical System, Baltimore, MD for facilities         $250,000  Sarbanes
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment for the Highlandtown Health Living
                                   Health Facilities and          Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Baptist Health System, Jacksonville, FL, for equipment         $100,000                              Bill Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Baptist Hospitals of Southeast Texas, Beaumont, TX for         $200,000  Poe (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Barnesville Hospital, Barnesville, OH for facilities           $800,000  Wilson (OH)                 Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bassett Hospital of Schoharie County dba Cobleskill            $350,000  Tonko
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Regional Hospital, Cobleskill, NY for facilities and
                                   Health Facilities and          equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Baton Rouge General Medical Center, Baton Rouge, LA,           $200,000                              Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment at a nursing facility
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bay Area Medical Center, Marinette, WI, for health             $900,000  Stupak                      Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bay Regional Medical Center, Bay City, MI for                  $350,000  Kildee                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  BayCare Health System, Clearwater, FL for facilities         $1,000,000  Young (FL)                  Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bear Lake Memorial Hospital, Montpelier, ID for                $300,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Beebe Medical Center, Lewes, DE, for facilities and            $100,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ben Archer Health Center, Hatch, NM for facilities and         $300,000  Teague
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Benefis Health System, Great Falls, MT for facilities          $500,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology, Boston, MA,         $100,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for the development of health profession training
                                   Health Facilities and          programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bergen Regional Medical Center, Hackensack, NJ, for            $300,000                              Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Big Springs Medical Association, Inc dba Missouri            $1,000,000                              Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Highlands Health Care, Ellington, MO, for facilities
                                   Health Facilities and          and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Billings Clinic, Billings, MT for a rural health               $250,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        outreach program, including facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bingham Memorial Hospital, Blackfoot, ID, for                  $200,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  BioInnovation Institute of Akron, Akron, OH for              $1,000,000  Sutton; LaTourette; Ryan    Voinovich; Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment                                                 (OH)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bisbee Hospital Association, Bisbee, AZ for facilities         $400,000  Giffords
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bi-State Primary Care Association, Montpelier, VT, for         $125,000                              Sanders
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities, equipment and expansion of outreach and
                                   Health Facilities and          education programs
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Blackstone Valley Community Health Care Inc, Pawtucket,        $500,000                              Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        RI, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, for facilities and          $650,000  Markey (MA)                 Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bothwell Region Health Center, Sedalia, MO for                 $370,000  Skelton
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Boulder City Hospital, Boulder City, NV, for facilities      $1,000,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bradley Hospital, East Providence, RI for facilities           $500,000  Kennedy
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Branch-Hillsdale-St. Joseph Community Health Agency,           $400,000  Schauer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Coldwater, MI for facilities and equipment for a
                                   Health Facilities and          Hillsdale public health dental clinic
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bridgeport Hospital, Bridgeport, CT, for facilities and        $325,000  Himes                       Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Broadlawns Medical Center, Des Moines, IA, for                 $500,000  Boswell                     Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bronx Regional Health Information Organization, Bronx,         $310,000  Engel
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, Bronx, NY for facilities        $600,000  Serrano
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, Patchogue,        $150,000  Bishop (NY)                 Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Brown University, Providence, RI, for facilities and           $116,000  Langevin                    Whitehouse; Reed
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment relating to medical education
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Brownsville Community Development Corporation,                 $400,000  Clarke
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Brooklyn, NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Butler Hospital, Providence, RI, for equipment relating        $200,000  Kennedy; Langevin           Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        to Alzheimer's disease
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cabell Huntington Hospital Foundation, Huntington, WV          $650,000  Rahall
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Calhoun Liberty Hospital, Blountstown, FL for                  $450,000  Boyd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  California State University Channel Islands, Camarillo,        $195,000  Gallegly
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        CA for nursing curriculum development, including
                                   Health Facilities and          purchase of equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  California State University San Bernardino, San                $100,000  Bono Mack
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Bernardino, CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  California State University, Bakersfield, CA for               $150,000  McCarthy (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  California State University, Long Beach, Department of         $200,000  Rohrabacher
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Nursing, Long Beach, CA for nursing programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Camillus House, Inc., Miami, FL for facilities and             $500,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Diaz-Balart,  Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment                                                                Mario; Meek (FL);
                                   Health Facilities and                                                                                   Wasserman Schultz
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  CARD Clinic, Libby, MT, for facilities and equipment           $550,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        related to an asbestos surveillance initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  CarePartners Foundation, Asheville, NC, for health             $300,000  Shuler                      Burr
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information systems including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Caribou Memorial Hospital, Soda Springs, ID, for               $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Caring Health Center, Inc, Springfield, MA, for                $150,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Caritas Christi Health Care, Boston, MA for facilities         $400,000  Lynch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment for Carney Hospital, Dorchester, MA
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Caroline's Room/Community Foundation of Greater New            $300,000  DeLauro
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Haven, New Haven, CT for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cassia Regional Medical Center, Burley, ID, for                $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Castleton State College, Castleton, VT, for a nursing          $500,000  Welch                       Sanders
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        program, including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Catholic Charities Free Health Care Center, Pittsburgh,        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        PA, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Catskill Regional Medical Center, Harris, NY for               $300,000  Hinchey                     Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, for              $655,000                              Feinstein
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment and supplies for the Institute for Irritable
                                   Health Facilities and          Bowel Syndrome Research
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Centenary College of Louisiana, Shreveport, LA, for            $500,000  Alexander                   Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment in health sciences
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Central Piedmont Community College, Charlotte, NC, for         $125,000  Kissell; Watt               Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Health Sciences
                                   Health Facilities and          Simulation Lab
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Central Suffolk Hospital dba Peconic Bay Medical               $100,000  Bishop (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Center, Riverhead, NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Central Washington Hospital, Wenatchee, WA for                 $600,000  Hastings (WA)               Cantwell; Murray
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Charles A Dean Memorial Hospital and Nursing Home,             $250,000  Michaud                     Collins; Snowe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Greenville, ME, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Charles Cole Memorial Hospital, Coudersport, PA, for           $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Charles T. Sitrin Health Care Center, New Hartford, NY         $250,000  Arcuri
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cherry Street Health Services, Grand Rapids, MI, for           $400,000  Ehlers                      Stabenow; Levin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Chicago Family Health Project, Chicago, IL for                 $250,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Chickaloon Native Village, Chickaloon, AK for                  $250,000  Young (AK)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Child Protection Center, Sarasota, FL for facilities           $150,000  Buchanan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Childersburg Medical Clinic Board, Childersburg, AL for        $200,000  Rogers (AL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Regional Diabetic Care
                                   Health Facilities and          and Advanced Wound Care Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Health Fund, New York, NY, for facilities           $150,000                              Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment at the South Bronx Health Center for
                                   Health Facilities and          Children and Families
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, for             $200,000  Bishop (GA); Lewis (GA)     Isakson; Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospital and Clinics of Minnesota, St. Paul,        $675,000  McCollum                    Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MN for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospital of KidsPeace, Orefield, PA, for            $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters Health             $200,000  Forbes                      Warner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        System, Chesapeake, VA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospital of the King's Daughters, Norfolk,          $250,000  Wittman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        VA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospital, Aurora, CO for facilities and             $225,000  Perlmutter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota,                 $450,000  Paulsen                     Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Minneapolis, MN for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Institute of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA for         $600,000  Doyle                       Casey; Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Medical Center, Dallas, TX, for facilities          $250,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital, Houston, TX, for         $100,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL for                  $500,000  Bean; Gutierrez; Jackson    Durbin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment                                                 (IL); Quigley
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Chinese Hospital, San Francisco, CA for facilities and         $350,000  Pelosi
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Chippewa Valley Free Clinic, Eau Claire, WI, for                $50,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic health record equipment and implementation
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Chippewa Valley Hospital, Durand, WI, for electronic           $400,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health record equipment and implementation
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  CHOICE Regional Health Network, Olympia, WA for rural          $115,000  Smith (WA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health outreach
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  CHRISTUS Health St. Francis Cabrini Hospital,                  $400,000  Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Alexandria, LA for an electronic medical records
                                   Health Facilities and          initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  CHRISTUS Health System, Shreveport, LA for a rural             $350,000  Alexander                   Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH for             $500,000  Driehaus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Citizens for a Fair Ferndale, Hazel Park, MI for               $150,000  Levin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for Ferndale Free Clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Anchorage, AK, for facilities and equipment            $125,000                              Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        relating to public health
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Bethlehem, PA for facilities and equipment             $100,000  Dent
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Hopewell, VA for facilities and equipment              $257,000  Forbes
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Ketchikan, AK, for facilities and equipment at       $1,000,000                              Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Ketchikan General Hospital
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of New Orleans, LA, for facilities and equipment        $1,000,000  Cao                         Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        at a hospital in New Orleans East
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Pendleton, OR, for facilities and equipment at         $150,000                              Merkley; Wyden
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        the Women Veterans Trauma Rehabilitation Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Philadelphia, PA for facilities and equipment          $535,000  Schwartz
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for electronic health records
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Philadelphia, PA, for equipment to develop an          $125,000                              Casey; Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Electronic Parental Care Registry
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Springville, AL for facilities and equipment           $250,000  Bachus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Sumter, SC for facilities and equipment for            $250,000  Clyburn; Spratt             Graham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Central Carolina Technical College
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of Vineland, NJ for facilities and equipment              $300,000  LoBiondo
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  City of West Wendover, NV, for equipment for the West          $310,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Wendover Medical Clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clarian Health and Riley Hospital for Children,                $400,000  Buyer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Indianapolis, IN for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clarian Health, Indianapolis, IN for facilities and            $200,000  Carson (IN)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clayton County Board of Commissioners, Jonesboro, GA           $350,000  Scott (GA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment for Alzheimer's Disease
                                   Health Facilities and          services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las       $1,300,000  Berkley                     Reid; Ensign
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Vegas, NV, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clinica Family Health Services, Lafayette, CO for              $250,000  Polis
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clinica Sierra Vista, Bakersfield, CA for facilities           $550,000  Costa
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clinicas de Salud del Pueblo, Inc., Brawley, CA for            $400,000  Filner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Clinics of Hope, USA, Knoxville, TN for facilities and         $200,000  Duncan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Coastal Bend College, Beeville, TX for facilities and          $220,000  Hinojosa
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Coastal Medical Access Project, Brunswick, GA for              $100,000  Kingston
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cobb County Government, Marietta, GA for facilities and        $500,000  Gingrey (GA); Scott (GA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Codman Square Health Center, Dorchester, MA, for               $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Coeur d'Alene Tribe, Plummer, ID, for facilities and           $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring, NY, for            $500,000  Bishop (NY)                 Gillibrand; Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  College of Notre Dame of Maryland, Baltimore, MD for           $450,000  Sarbanes
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the school of pharmacy
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  College of Southern Maryland, La Plata, MD for                 $400,000  Hoyer                       Cardin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  College of St. Catherine, St. Paul, MN for health              $600,000  McCollum                    Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, MN for a rural             $550,000  Oberstar                    Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health technology project
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Collier County, FL for a health care access network for        $600,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        the uninsured, including purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Colorado State University--Pueblo, Pueblo, CO, for             $400,000  Salazar                     Mark Udall
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment related to nurse training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, CO for                 $500,000  Markey (CO)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for a biocontainment training
                                   Health Facilities and          facility
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Columbus Community Hospital, Columbus, WI for                  $500,000  Baldwin                     Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Columbus County Department of Aging and Adult Services,        $450,000  McIntyre
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Whiteville, NC for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Columbus Regional Hospital, Columbus, IN for facilities        $600,000  Hill                        Lugar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Commonwealth Medical Education, Scranton, PA, for              $250,000                              Casey; Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Care Services, Taunton, MA for facilities and        $200,000  Frank (MA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Alliance of Pasadena, Pasadena, CA for        $100,000  Schiff
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Center of Franklin County, Inc.,              $200,000  Olver
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Turners Falls, MA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Center's Inc, Middletown, CT, for             $225,000  Courtney; DeLauro; Larson   Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        residency training for nurse practitioners                               (CT); Murphy (CT)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Centers of the Rutland Region,                $125,000                              Sanders
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Bomoseen, VT, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Center's, Inc, Middletown, CT, for            $100,000                              Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Development, Inc., Uvalde, TX for             $600,000  Rodriguez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Integrated Partnership, Inc., Glen            $650,000  Hoyer; Kratovil;            Cardin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Burnie, MD for facilities and equipment                                  Ruppersberger; Sarbanes
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Health Service Agency, Greenville, TX for            $300,000  Hall (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Hospital Association, Inc., Fairfax, MO for          $500,000  Graves
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Medical Center, Missoula, MT for facilities          $500,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Community Medical Center, Toms River, NJ for facilities        $500,000  Adler (NJ)                  Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Hartford, CT,           $325,000  Larson (CT)                 Dodd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Connecticut State University System, Hartford, CT, for         $300,000                              Dodd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        a nursing education program
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cook Children's Medical Center, Fort Worth, TX, for            $100,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cooper Health System, Camden, NJ for facilities and            $200,000  Andrews                     Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cornerstone Care, Greensboro, PA, for outreach and             $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        supplies to expand dental care
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Corry Memorial Hospital Association, Corry, PA, for            $100,000  Dahlkemper                  Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cortland Regional Medical Center, Inc., Cortland, NY           $250,000  Arcuri                      Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County Commissioners of Charles County, MD, La Plata,          $250,000  Hoyer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MD for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Brunswick, Bolivia, NC for facilities and            $250,000  McIntyre
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Custer, ID for facilities and equipment              $400,000  Simpson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Hood River, OR for facilities and equipment          $150,000  Walden                      Wyden; Merkely
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Sarasota, FL for facilities and equipment            $350,000  Buchanan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Washington, Hillsboro, OR for facilities and         $350,000  Wu                          Wyden; Merkely
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for a mental health clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  County of Washington, Plymouth, NC for facilities and          $450,000  Butterfield                 Burr
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cove-Union-Powder Medical Association, Union, OR, for          $100,000                              Merkley; Wyden
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Creighton University, Omaha, NE for facilities and           $1,000,000  Terry
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cullman Regional Medical Center, Cullman, AL for             $1,000,000  Aderholt
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Curators of the University of Missouri, Columbia, MO,          $750,000                              Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Cure Alzheimer's Fund, Wellesley Hills, MA, for                $150,000  Markey (MA)                 Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, for                  $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at Center for Biomedical
                                   Health Facilities and          Imaging in Oncology
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Daniel Memorial, Inc., Jacksonville, FL for facilities         $500,000  Crenshaw                    Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Daniels Memorial Hospital Association, Scobey, MT for          $400,000  Rehberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, for           $200,000                              Gregg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  DCH Health System, Northport, AL for facilities and            $350,000  Bachus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  DCH Health System/Fayette Medical Center, Fayette, AL          $600,000  Aderholt
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Delaware State University, Dover, DE, for facilities           $100,000                              Kaufman; Carper
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment related to public health training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Delta Dental of Iowa, Ames, IA, for the Rural Dental           $150,000  Boswell                     Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Health Initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, for facilities          $750,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Denver Health and Hospital Authority, Denver, CO for           $500,000  DeGette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  DeSales University, Center Valley, PA, for medical             $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        education laboratory upgrades, including the purchase
                                   Health Facilities and          of equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Devereux Foundation, Rockledge, FL, for facilities and         $100,000                              Bill Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Dillard University, New Orleans, LA for facilities and         $450,000  Cao                         Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Drake University, Des Moines, IA, for equipment and            $400,000  Boswell                     Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        laboratory supplies for health sciences education
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Drew Memorial Hospital, Monticello, AR, for equipment          $100,000                              Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Dubois Regional Medical Center, Dubois, PA for                 $100,000  Thompson (PA)               Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  DuPage County Health Department, Wheaton, IL for               $150,000  Roskam
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  E.J. Noble Hospital, Gouverneur, NY for facilities and         $350,000  McHugh
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  East Carolina University, Greenville, NC for facilities        $222,000  Jones; Butterfield          Hagan; Burr
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  East End Health Alliance, Greenport, NY, to implement          $500,000  Bishop (NY)                 Schumer; Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        an electronic health record system
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  East Harlem Council for Human Services, Inc., New York,        $300,000  Rangel
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Easter Seals, Chicago, IL, for facilities and equipment        $250,000  Davis (IL)                  Durbin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        at a center for autism research
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Easter Seals-Goodwill Northern Rocky Mountain, Inc.,           $500,000  Rehberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Great Falls, MT for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Eastside Eye Care Clinic, San Antonio, TX for                  $250,000  Smith (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Edgerton Care Center, Edgerton, WI for facilities and          $150,000  Baldwin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Edward Waters College, Jacksonville, FL for facilities         $500,000  Brown, Corrine
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Eisenhower Medical Center, Rancho Mirage, CA for               $350,000  Bono Mack
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  El Proyecto del Barrio Inc., Arleta, CA for facilities         $300,000  Sherman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment for a community health clinic in
                                   Health Facilities and          Winnetka, CA
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Elk Regional Health Center, St Marys, PA, for equipment        $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ellwood City Hospital, Ellwood City, PA, for facilities        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Endless Mountains Health Systems, Montrose, PA for             $700,000  Carney                      Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Enrichment Center of Hernando County, Brooksville, FL          $600,000  Brown-Waite, Ginny
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Erie County Medical Center Corporation, Buffalo, NY,           $300,000  Slaughter                   Schumer; Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Excela Health Frick Hospital, Mt. Pleasant, PA for             $150,000  Murtha                      Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Excela Health Westmoreland Hospital, Latrobe, PA, to           $200,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        implement an electronic health record system
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Family Health Centers of San Diego, San Diego, CA, for         $100,000                              Boxer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Family Health Centers Worcester, Worcester, MA for             $250,000  McGovern
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Family Service of RI, Providence, RI for facilities and        $400,000  Kennedy
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ferrum College, Ferrum, VA for facilities and equipment        $400,000  Perriello                   Webb; Warner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Flambeau Hospital, Park Falls, WI for facilities and           $750,000  Obey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Fletcher Allen Health Care, Burlington, VT, for the            $750,000                              Leahy
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Hospital-National Guard Training Collaborative,
                                   Health Facilities and          including equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Florida Blood Services, St. Petersburg, FL for purchase        $200,000  Young (FL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Florida Community College at Jacksonville, FL for              $250,000  Crenshaw; Brown, Corrine
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Florida Hospital Altamonte, Altamonte Springs, FL for          $100,000  Mica
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Florida Southern College, Lakeland, FL for facilities          $400,000  Putnam
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Floyd Medical Center, Rome, GA for facilities and              $250,000  Gingrey (GA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Forsyth Institute, Boston, MA for facilities and               $450,000  Delahunt; Capuano           Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  FoundCare, Palm Springs, FL for facilities and                 $200,000  Hastings (FL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Franciscan Hospital for Children, Boston, MA, for              $150,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Frank R. Howard Foundation, Willits, CA for facilities         $350,000  Thompson (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Free Clinics of Iowa, Des Moines, IA, for coordination         $350,000  Boswell                     Harkin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of care
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus                   $100,000                              Menendez; Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Foundation, Lake Success, NY, for a New Jersey mobile
                                   Health Facilities and          eye care screening initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Fulton County Medical Center, McConnellsburg, PA, for          $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI, for facilities         $500,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment at the Health Occupations Laboratory
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Geisinger Health System, Harrisburg, PA, for equipment         $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, GA, for health        $100,000  Barrow                      Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA for purchase of                $250,000  McMorris Rodgers
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Good Samaritan Hospital, Los Angeles, CA for facilities        $400,000  Roybal-Allard               Boxer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Goodall Hospital, Sanford, ME, for facilities and              $250,000                              Collins; Snowe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Gordon Hospital, Calhoun, GA for an electronic medical         $150,000  Gingrey (GA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        records system
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Graceland University, Lamoni, IA for facilities and            $150,000  King (IA); Cleaver          Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Grady Health System, Atlanta, GA for facilities and          $1,100,000  Lewis (GA); Bishop (GA);    Isakson; Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment                                                                Johnson (GA)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Grand Rapids Public Schools, Grand Rapids, MI for              $500,000  Ehlers
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Central Health Science
                                   Health Facilities and          Campus
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Griffin Hospital, Derby, CT for facilities and                 $350,000  DeLauro                     Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Grimes St. Joseph Health Center, Navasota, TX for              $150,000  Edwards (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Gritman Medical Center, Moscow, ID, for facilities and         $200,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Gulf County Health Department, Port St. Joe, FL for            $200,000  Boyd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Halifax Community College, Weldon, NC for facilities           $150,000  Butterfield
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hamilton Memorial Hospital, McLeansboro, IL for an             $200,000  Shimkus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hamot Medical Center, Erie, PA, for equipment                  $100,000  Dahlkemper                  Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hancock Medical Center, Bay Saint Louis, MS for                $500,000  Taylor                      Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hanover Hospital, Hanover, PA for an electronic medical        $450,000  Platts                      Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Happiness House/Finger Lakes Cerebral Palsy                     $30,000  Arcuri
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Association, Geneva, NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Harnett County Central Campus Hospital, Dunn, NC for           $400,000  Etheridge                   Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX for               $100,000  Green, Al
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the Nurse Call Triage
                                   Health Facilities and          System
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX for               $300,000  Green, Gene; Culberson;
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        radiological facilities and equipment                                    Jackson-Lee (TX)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Harris County Hospital District, Houston, TX, for              $150,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment including STAN fetal heart
                                   Health Facilities and          monitors
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Harrison Memorial Hospital, Cynthiana, KY for                  $100,000  Davis (KY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hartford Hospital, Hartford, CT, for facilities and            $325,000  Larson (CT)                 Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hays Medical Center, Hays, KS, for facilities and              $250,000                              Brownback
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Health Alliance, Lake Katrine, NY for facilities and           $300,000  Hinchey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Healthy Connections Network, Akron, OH, for the Access         $150,000  Ryan (OH); Sutton           Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        to Care Initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Healthy Learners Midlands, Columbia, SC for rural              $110,000  Clyburn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health outreach
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Helping Kids Clinic, Las Vegas, NV, for medical                $200,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        supplies and supportive services
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hendricks Regional Health, Danville, IN for facilities         $550,000  Buyer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN for            $400,000  Ellison                     Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital, Valencia, CA for         $350,000  McKeon
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hidalgo County Health Department, Edinburg, TX for             $380,000  Hinojosa                    Cornyn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Highland Community Hospital, Hattiesburg, MS for               $200,000  Taylor                      Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Highlands Hospital, Connellsville, PA for facilities           $300,000  Murtha
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Holy Name Hospital, Teaneck, NJ for facilities and             $500,000  Rothman (NJ)                Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Holy Spirit Healthcare System, Camp Hill, PA, for              $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Holyoke Medical Center, Holyoke, MA for facilities and         $300,000  Olver                       Kennedy; Kerry: Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hormel Institute, Austin, MN, for facilities and             $1,000,000  Walz                        Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment related to biomedical research
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hospice of Tuscarawas County, Inc., Dover, OH for              $400,000  Space
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hospital Authority of Jefferson County, Louisville, GA         $150,000  Barrow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hospital Cooperative, Pocatello, ID, for electronic            $200,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical records
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Houlton Regional Hospital, Houlton, ME for facilities          $250,000  Michaud
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Houston Community College, Houston, TX, for health             $250,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Howard Community College, Columbia, MD, for facilities       $1,000,000                              Mikulski; Cardin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment related to healthcare workforce training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hudson Headwaters Health Network, Queensbury, NY for           $350,000  Murphy (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hudson River HealthCare, Inc., Peekskill, NY for               $400,000  Hinchey                     Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Huguley Memorial Medical Center, Burleson, TX for              $380,000  Edwards (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hunter Health Clinic, Wichita, KS, for facilities and          $300,000                              Brownback
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Hurley Medical Center, Flint, MI for facilities and            $500,000  Kildee                      Stabenow; Levin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX, for facilities        $100,000                              Cornyn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Idaho Caring Foundation for Children, Boise, ID for            $300,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        dental services for low-income children
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID for facilities           $400,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Illinois Capital Development Board, Springfield, IL for        $200,000  Davis (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Illinois State University, Normal, IL for curriculum           $500,000  Johnson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        development
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Indian Health Center of Santa Clara County, San Jose,          $300,000  Honda
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Indiana Regional Medical Center, Indiana, PA for an            $350,000  Shuster; Murtha             Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Infirmary Health System, Mobile, AL for an electronic          $250,000  Bonner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ingham Regional Medical Center, Lansing, MI for                $100,000  Rogers (MI)                 Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Intermountain Healthcare Foundation, Salt Lake City,           $250,000  Bishop (UT)                 Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        UT, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Iowa CareGivers Association, Des Moines, IA, for               $300,000                              Harkin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        training and support of certified nurse assistants
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Iowa Healthcare Collaborative, Des Moines, IA, to              $750,000                              Harkin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        establish Lean healthcare services in collaboration
                                   Health Facilities and          with Pittsburgh Regional Health
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Iowa State University, Ames, IA for facilities and             $650,000  Latham                      Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Iowa State University, Ames, IA for facilities and           $1,500,000  Latham; Loebsack            Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Iowa Western Community College, Council Bluffs, IA for         $250,000  King (IA)                   Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  J.C. Blair Memorial Hospital, Huntingdon, PA for               $180,000  Shuster
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jackson Health System, Miami, FL for health information        $500,000  Ros-Lehtinen; Meek (FL);    Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        technology upgrades                                                      Wasserman Schultz
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, for the Southern      $1,000,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Institute for Mental Health Advocacy, Research, and
                                   Health Facilities and          Training
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jacksonville University, Jacksonville, FL for                  $250,000  Crenshaw
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Jamaica, NY for               $250,000  Meeks (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jasper Memorial Hospital, Monticello, GA for facilities        $100,000  Marshall
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jellico Community Hospital, Jellico, TN, for facilities        $500,000                              Corker; Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jenkins County Hospital, Millen, GA for facilities and         $200,000  Barrow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jewish Healthcare Foundation, Pittsburgh, PA, to expand        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        web-based training programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Jewish Hospital & St. Mary's Foundation, Louisville, KY        $600,000  Yarmuth
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  JFK Medical Center, Edison, NJ for facilities and              $300,000  Pallone                     Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  John Kanzius Cancer Research Foundation, Erie, PA for          $700,000  Dahlkemper
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  John T. Mather Memorial Hospital, Port Jefferson, NY           $450,000  Bishop (NY)                 Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS,           $400,000                              Brownback
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kadlec Medical Center, Richland, WA, for facilities and        $550,000  Hastings (WA)               Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment to expand the pediatric center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kaleida Health, Buffalo, NY for facilities and                 $300,000  Higgins; Lee (NY);          Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment                                                                Slaughter
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kaweah Delta Hospital Foundation, Visalia, CA, for             $500,000                              Feinstein
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the Kaweah Delta Health
                                   Health Facilities and          Care District
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kennesaw State University, Kennesaw, GA for facilities         $300,000  Gingrey (GA)                Isakson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kent County Memorial Hospital, Warwick, RI, for                $200,000                              Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kiddazzle Dental Network, Inc, Lake Oswego, OR, for            $100,000                              Wyden; Merkley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment and supplies related to pediatric dental
                                   Health Facilities and          services
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Kiowa County Hospital, Greensburg, KS, for facilities          $400,000                              Brownback
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  KVC Behavioral Health Care, Kansas City, KS for                $500,000  Moore (KS)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  La Porte Regional Health System, La Porte, IN for              $350,000  Donnelly (IN)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  La Rabida Children's Hospital, Chicago, IL for                 $325,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Laboure College, Dorchester, MA, to develop and expand         $200,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        nursing education programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lahey Clinic Medical Center, Inc, Burlington, MA, for          $300,000  Tierney                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment relating to the emergency
                                   Health Facilities and          department
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lake City Community College, Lake City, FL for purchase        $250,000  Crenshaw                    Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of mobile clinical training laboratories
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine, Erie, PA,           $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lake Hospital System, Painesville, OH for an electronic        $500,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lakeland Community College, Kirtland, OH for purchase          $250,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lamar University, Beaumont, TX for the Community and           $350,000  Poe (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        University Partnership Service, including facilities
                                   Health Facilities and          and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lamprey Health Care, Inc., Newmarket, NH for facilities        $400,000  Hodes                       Shaheen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lanai Community Health Center, Lanai City, HI, for             $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lane Community College, Eugene, OR for facilities and          $500,000  DeFazio                     Merkley; Wyden
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lane Regional Medical Center, Baton Rouge, LA, for             $300,000                              Vitter; Landrieu
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  LBJ Tropical Medical Center, Pago Pago, AS for                 $700,000  Faleomavaega
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Le Moyne College, Syracuse, NY, for facilities and             $500,000  Maffei                      Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment relating to health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lehigh Valley Coalition for Kids , Allentown, PA to            $150,000  Dent
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase and equip mobile health clinics
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lehigh Valley Hospital, Allentown, PA, for equipment           $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lewis and Clark County, Helena, MT, for facilities and         $100,000  Rehberg                     Tester; Baucus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment at the City-County Health Department
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lewis-Clark State College, Lewiston, ID, for health            $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Little Rivers Health Care, Bradford, VT for facilities         $200,000  Welch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, Long Beach, CA for         $350,000  Richardson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Los Angeles Southwest College, Los Angeles, CA for             $300,000  Waters
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lowell Community Health Center, Lowell, MA for                 $600,000  Tsongas                     Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lutheran Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY for facilities           $150,000  McMahon
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Lutheran Social Services of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN for        $450,000  McCollum                    Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mackinac Straits Health System, Inc., St. Ignace, MI           $150,000  Stupak                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Madison Area Technical College, Madison, WI, for health        $300,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        training equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Madison County Health Care Center, Winterset, IA for an        $250,000  Latham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Madison County Memorial Hospital, Rexburg, ID for an           $350,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital, Lincoln, NE for               $650,000  Fortenberry                 Ben Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Maine State Board of Nursing, Augusta, ME, for nursing         $150,000                              Collins
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        education and workforce data collection, analysis and
                                   Health Facilities and          planning
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Manchester Community College, Manchester, CT, for              $120,000                              Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical diagnostic and treatment equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Manchester Community Health Center, Manchester, NH for         $250,000  Shea-Porter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Maniilaq Association, Kotzebue, AK, for facilities and         $500,000  Young (AK)                  Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Marcus Autism Center, Atlanta, GA, to expand services          $300,000                              Isakson; Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for children and adolescents with developmental
                                   Health Facilities and          disabilities
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Marian Medical Center, Santa Maria, CA for facilities          $500,000  Capps
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI for rural dental           $850,000  Kagen; Obey                 Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health outreach
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, WI for facilities and         $1,000,000  Obey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Martin Methodist College, Pulaski, TN for facilities         $1,000,000  Davis (TN)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mary Queen of Vietnam Community Development                    $400,000  Cao
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Corporation, New Orleans, LA for facilities and
                                   Health Facilities and          equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene,            $2,500,000  Edwards (MD)                Mikulski; Cardin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Baltimore, MD for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,         $400,000  McGovern                    Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Worcester, MA for health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, for health         $100,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        education at the Lanai'I Women's Initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Maui Medical Center, Wailuku, HI, for facilities and           $100,000  Hirono                      Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment at the Simulation Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  McCurtain Memorial Hospital, Idabel, OK for facilities         $250,000  Boren
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  McKay-Dee Hospital Center, Ogden, UT for facilities and        $150,000  Bishop (UT)                 Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Meadville Medical Center, Meadville, PA, for equipment         $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Medical University of South Carolina-Hollings Cancer           $200,000  Brown (SC)                  Graham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Center, Charleston, SC for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Memorial Healthcare System, Hollywood, FL for                  $450,000  Wasserman Schultz; Meek     Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment                                                 (FL)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Memorial Hermann Foundation, Houston, TX for facilities        $250,000  Culberson; Green, Al;       Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment                                                            Jackson-Lee (TX)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Memorial Hermann Healthcare System, Houston, TX for          $1,000,000  Culberson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Memorial Hospital at Gulfport, Gulfport, MS, for the           $475,000  Taylor                      Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Stroke Education and Prevention Community Network
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Memorial Hospital, Miramar, FL for facilities and              $250,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mena Regional Health System, Mena, AR for facilities           $600,000  Ross                        Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mental Health Association in High Point, NC for                $247,000  Coble
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mercer County Commission, Princeton, WV, for facilities      $4,000,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment at the Health Department
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mercy Health Foundation, Durango, CO for facilities and        $700,000  Salazar                     Bennet
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for a primary health clinic in La Plata
                                   Health Facilities and          County
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mercy Medical Center -- North Iowa, Mason City, IA for         $350,000  Latham                      Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        an electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mercy Medical Center, Des Moines, IA, for facilities           $500,000                              Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Meridian Health, Neptune, NJ for facilities and                $100,000  Smith (NJ)                  Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Methodist Hospital System, Houston, TX, for a mobile           $150,000                              Cornyn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical unit
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Methodist University, Fayetteville, NC, for facilities         $400,000  Etheridge; Kissell;         Burr
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment                                                            McIntyre
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Metropolitan Community College, Omaha, NE, for                 $300,000                              Ben Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment relating to healthcare
                                   Health Facilities and          training
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Metropolitan Family Health Network, Jersey City, NJ,           $100,000  Sires                       Menendez; Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Metropolitan State University, St Paul, MN, to expand          $150,000                              Klobuchar; Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        nursing education
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Miami Beach Community Health Center, North Miami, FL           $200,000  Ros-Lehtinen                Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Miami Children's Hospital, Miami, FL for facilities and        $450,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln; Diaz-
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment                                                                Balart, Mario; Wasserman
                                   Health Facilities and                                                                                   Schultz
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged, Miami, FL         $500,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln        Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Middlesex Community College, Bedford, MA for facilities        $450,000  Tierney; Tsongas            Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment for the Lowell dental hygiene clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mid-Illinois Medical District, Springfield, IL for             $250,000  Schock
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  MidState Medical Center, Meridien, CT for facilities           $250,000  Murphy (CT)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Milwaukee Health Services, Milwaukee, WI for facilities        $350,000  Moore (WI)                  Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Milwaukee Public Schools, Milwaukee, WI, for outreach          $200,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and supplies to expand dental care
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Minot State University, Minot, ND for its Great Plains         $800,000  Pomeroy                     Conrad; Dorgan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Autism Treatment Program
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Misericordia University, Dallas, PA, for facilities and        $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for the College of Health Sciences
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians, Choctaw, MS, for          $175,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mississippi Blood Services, Jackson, MS, for facilities        $300,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mississippi Primary Health Care Association, Jackson,          $700,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MS, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS,           $750,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for biomedical engineering facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Missouri Baptist Hospital, St. Louis, MO for facilities        $400,000  Carnahan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Missouri Coalition for Primary Health Care, Jefferson          $750,000                              Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        City, MO, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Missouri State University, Springfield, MO, for a              $250,000  Emerson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        nursing clinical simulation laboratory, including
                                   Health Facilities and          facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL for the Cancer                $700,000  Young (FL); Castor (FL)     Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        LifeLink Program
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Molokai Ohana Health Center, Kaunakakai, HI, for               $750,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ for facilities        $500,000  Pallone                     Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Monongahela Valley Hospital, Monongahela, PA for               $400,000  Murtha; Murphy, Tim         Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Monongalia General Hospital, Morgantown, WV for                $450,000  Mollohan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Montana Tech, Butte, MT, to expand health informatics          $100,000  Rehberg                     Tester; Baucus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        training, including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Montana Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council, Billings, MT           $100,000  Rehberg                     Baucus
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Montgomery College, Rockville, MD for facilities and           $550,000  Van Hollen; Edwards (MD)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Morehead State University, Morehead, KY for a rural            $250,000  Rogers (KY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA for                  $100,000  Lewis (GA); Bishop (GA);
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment                                                 Johnson (GA)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Morgan Hospital and Medical Center, Martinsville, IN,          $100,000                              Lugar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Morris College, Sumter, SC for facilities and equipment        $275,000  Clyburn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Morrisania Diagnostic and Treatment Center, Bronx, NY          $200,000  Serrano
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mount Nittany Medical Center, State College, PA for            $150,000  Thompson (PA)               Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mount Saint Mary College, Newburgh, NY, for nurse              $100,000  Hinchey                     Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        training equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Mount St. Mary's Hospital, Lewiston, NY for facilities         $300,000  Slaughter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  MultiCare Health System, Tacoma, WA for facilities and         $250,000  Dicks
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Murphy Medical Center, Murphy, NC for facilities and           $350,000  Shuler
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Murray State University, Breathitt Veterinary Center,          $450,000  Whitfield                   Bunning
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Hopkinsville, KY, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Nanticoke Senior Center, Seaford, DE for facilities and        $100,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Nathan Littauer Hospital Association, Gloversville, NY         $350,000  Tonko                       Schumer; Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  National Association of Hispanic Nurses, Washington, DC        $500,000  Roybal-Allard; Pastor (AZ)  Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  National Kidney Registry, Babylon, NY for purchase of          $177,000  King (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Native Women's Health Care, Rapid City, SD for                  $60,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Navos, Seattle, WA, for facilities and equipment at a          $500,000  McDermott; Smith (WA)       Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        mental health center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  NC Dental Health Fund, Cary, NC for facilities and             $300,000  Price (NC)                  Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for the Missions of Mercy (MOM) free dental
                                   Health Facilities and          clinics
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children,                $350,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Wilmington, DE for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Nevada State College, Henderson, NV for nursing                $900,000  Titus                       Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        education programs, which may include equipment and
                                   Health Facilities and          technology
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  New Horizons Health System, Owenton, KY for facilities         $250,000  Davis (KY)                  Bunning
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY for               $150,000  Maloney
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for ophthalmology and
                                   Health Facilities and          otolaryngology surgery
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY for               $200,000  Nadler (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and ultrasound equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  New York University Langone Medical Center, New York,        $1,000,000  Maloney                     Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NY for facilities and equipment at Columbus Medical in
                                   Health Facilities and          Reno Park, Queens
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Newton Memorial Hospital, Newton, NJ for facilities and        $300,000  Garrett (NJ)                Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Norman Regional Health System, Norman, OK for                $1,915,000  Cole                        Inhofe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro, NC,           $125,000  Watt                        Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for the development of nurse training programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North General Hospital, New York, NY for facilities and        $450,000  Rangel
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North Idaho College, Coeur d'Alene, ID, for health             $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North Shore Community College, Danvers, MA for                 $200,000  Tierney                     Kennedy; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for allied health training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System, Great            $200,000  Israel; Ackerman            Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Neck, NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  North Woods Community Health Center, Minong, WI for            $100,000  Obey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northeastern Ohio Universities Colleges of Medicine and        $200,000  Ryan (OH)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Pharmacy, Rootstown, OH for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northern Dutchess Hospital, Rhinebeck, NY for                  $350,000  Murphy (NY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northern Oswego County Health Services, Inc., Pulaski,         $150,000  McHugh
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NY for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northwest Alabama Mental Health Center, Jasper, AL for         $200,000  Aderholt
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  NorthWest Arkansas Community College, Bentonville, AR,         $500,000  Boozman                     Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for expanding a nurse training program, including
                                   Health Facilities and          facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northwest Community Health Care, Pascoag, RI, for              $200,000                              Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northwest Hospital & Medical Center, Seattle, WA, for          $250,000  Inslee; McDermott           Murray
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northwest Mississippi Community College, Senatobia, MS,        $500,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Northwest Nazarene University, Nampa, ID, for                  $200,000                              Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, for         $250,000  Meek (FL); Wasserman        Bill Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health information technology                                            Schultz
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oakland Primary Health Services, Pontiac, MI for               $500,000  Peters                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oglala Sioux Tribe, Pine Ridge, SD, for facilities and         $800,000                              Johnson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment relating to emergency medicine
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center,             $900,000  Kilroy                      Voinovich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Columbus, OH, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oklahoma City Community College, Oklahoma City, OK for         $250,000  Cole                        Inhofe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK        $500,000  Cole                        Inhofe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oklahoma State University--Center for Health Sciences,         $300,000  Fallin; Boren; Lucas;
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Tulsa, OK for purchase of equipment                                      Sullivan
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK for                  $350,000  Fallin; Lucas               Inhofe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Orange County Government, Orlando, FL, for facilities          $200,000  Brown, Corrine; Kosmas      Martinez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR for           $200,000  Blumenauer; Schrader; Wu    Merkley; Wyden
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oregon Institute of Technology, Klamath Falls, OR for          $100,000  Walden; Wu                  Wyden; Merkely
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Oregon Institute of Technology, Klamath Falls, OR for          $250,000  Walden; Wu                  Wyden; Merkely
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  OSF St. Francis Hospital and Medical Group, Escanaba,          $250,000  Stupak                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MI for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Our Lady of Resurrection Medical Center, Chicago, IL           $125,000  Quigley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ozark Tri-County Health Care Consortium, Neosho, MO for        $500,000  Blunt
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Ozarks Medical Center, West Plains, MO for facilities          $500,000  Emerson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  PACE Greater New Orleans, New Orleans, LA for                  $600,000  Alexander; Cao              Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities, equipment, and services
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pacific Northwest Diabetes Research Institute, Seattle,        $150,000                              Murray
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        WA, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pacific Northwest University of Health Sciences,               $400,000  Hastings (WA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Yakima, WA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Palisades Medical Center, North Bergen, NJ for                 $350,000  Rothman (NJ); Sires
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Palmer College, Davenport, IA, and the Myrna Brind             $400,000                              Harkin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Center of Integrative Medicine in Philadelphia, PA, to
                                   Health Facilities and          develop a model integrative healthcare program for the
                                   Services                       treatment of pain
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Palmetto Health Foundation, Columbia, SC for facilities        $375,000  Clyburn                     Graham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX for            $100,000  Burgess
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Parkland Health and Hospital System, Dallas, TX for            $500,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice      Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the Pharmacy Inpatient
                                   Health Facilities and          Robotics program
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pen Bay Healthcare, Rockport, ME, for health                   $500,000                              Collins; Snowe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pennsylvania State University--Altoona, PA for                 $320,000  Shuster
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Petaluma Health Center, Petaluma, CA for facilities and        $500,000  Woolsey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Peter Christensen Health Center, Lac du Flambeau, WI           $140,000  Kagen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Phoebe Putney Health System, Albany, GA, for health            $100,000  Bishop (GA)                 Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        care services for students
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, AZ for facilities        $200,000  Pastor (AZ)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment for a Computerized Tomography (CT)
                                   Health Facilities and          scanner for the emergency department
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pine Rest Christian Mental Health Services , Grand             $200,000  Ehlers                      Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Rapids, MI for an electronic medical records
                                   Health Facilities and          initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  PinnacleHealth System, Harrisburg, PA, for equipment           $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pioneer Valley Life Science Institute, Springfield, MA,        $800,000  Neal                        Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for medical research equipment and technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Pocono Medical Center, East Stroudsburg, PA, for               $100,000  Kanjorski                   Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment relating to cancer
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Porter-Starke Services, Inc., Valparaiso, IN for               $550,000  Visclosky
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Primary Care Association of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, to         $1,850,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        provide service enhancements and outreach
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Providence Community Health Centers, Providence, RI,           $400,000  Langevin                    Reed; Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Providence Health and Services, Anchorage, AK for a            $350,000  Young (AK)                  Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        physician recruitment and retention initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Providence Hospital, Mobile, AL for facilities and             $250,000  Bonner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, Burbank, CA for          $500,000  Schiff
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Providence St. Mary Medical Center, Walla Walla, WA for        $350,000  McMorris Rodgers            Murray
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, Seattle, WA         $1,100,000  McDermott                   Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment for the Rainier Beach
                                   Health Facilities and          Medical and Dental Clinic
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Range Regional Health Services, Hibbing, MN for                $500,000  Oberstar                    Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Reading Hospital and Medical Center, Reading, PA, for          $100,000                              Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Chippewa, Bayfield, WI         $750,000  Obey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Redlands Community Hospital, Redlands, CA for                  $500,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Refuah, Spring Valley, NY for facilities and equipment         $390,000  Engel
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Renown Health Systems, Reno, NV for facilities and             $800,000  Heller
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Renown Health, Reno, NV, for nursing programs,                 $390,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        including professional development
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Resurrection Health Care, Chicago, IL, for equipment           $400,000                              Durbin; Burris
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rhode Island Free Clinic, Providence, RI, for                  $100,000                              Whitehouse
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        supportive services and supplies
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, for equipment           $100,000                              Whitehouse; Reed
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rice University, Houston, TX for facilities and                $450,000  Culberson                   Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Richland Parish Hospital, Delhi, LA for facilities and       $1,025,000  Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Richmond University Medical Center, Staten Island, NY          $150,000  McMahon                     Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Riverside Community College District, Riverside, CA for        $150,000  Bono Mack; Calvert
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Riverside County Regional Medical Center, Moreno               $400,000  Calvert
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Valley, CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Riverside County Regional Medical Center, Moreno               $100,000                              Boxer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Valley, CA, for a rural mobile health clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Roane County Committee on Aging, Inc., Spencer, WV for         $100,000  Capito
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rochester General Health System, Newark, NY for                $100,000  Maffei                      Schumer; Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rome Memorial Hospital Foundation, Rome, NY for                $250,000  Arcuri
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Roper/St. Francis Hospital, Charleston, SC for purchase        $200,000  Brown (SC)                  Graham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Rosebud, SD, for facilities and           $600,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson; Thune
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment relating to emergency medical services
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sacred Heart Hospital, Allentown, PA for facilities and        $450,000  Dent                        Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saddleback Memorial Medical Center, San Clemente, CA           $150,000  Calvert
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for an electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  SafeHaven of Tarrant County, Fort Worth, TX for a              $200,000  Barton (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        domestic violence prevention initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Anselm College, Manchester, NH, for facilities           $800,000                              Gregg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Barnabas Health Care System Foundation, West             $300,000                              Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Orange, NJ, for health information technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Claire Regional Medical Center, Morehead, KY, for        $100,000                              Bunning
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Francis Hospital Foundation, Wilmington, DE, for         $175,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Joseph College, West Hartford, CT, for equipment         $175,000  Larson (CT)                 Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        at the School of Pharmacy
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Joseph Hospital, Nashua, NH, for facilities and          $400,000                              Gregg; Shaheen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Joseph's Mercy Health Foundation, Hot Springs,           $200,000                              Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        AR, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Jude Children's Medical Center, Memphis, TN, for       $3,111,000                              Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Luke's Hospital and Health Network, Bethlehem,           $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        PA, for equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Mary's Hospital, Waterbury, CT, for facilities           $325,000  DeLauro; Murphy (CT)        Dodd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Patrick Hospital, Missoula, MT, to implement an          $300,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic health record system
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Saint Vincent Healthcare Foundation, Billings, MT, for         $350,000                              Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the Montana Pediatric
                                   Health Facilities and          Project
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Samuel U Rodgers Health Center Inc, Kansas City, MO,         $1,500,000                              Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Antonio Community Hospital, Upland, CA for                 $750,000  Dreier
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Francisco Human Services Agency, San Francisco, CA         $350,000  Pelosi
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment for the Child Advocacy
                                   Health Facilities and          Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA for          $500,000  Pelosi
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for health professions
                                   Health Facilities and          training
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Gorgonio Memorial Hospital, Banning, CA for                $340,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Luis Obispo County Community College District, San         $100,000  McCarthy (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Luis Obispo, CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  San Ysidro Health Center, San Ysidro, CA for facilities        $250,000  Filner                      Boxer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital System, San             $292,000  Honda
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Jose, CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Santa Fe College, Gainesville, FL for facilities and           $150,000  Stearns                     Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Schuylkill Health System, Pottsville, PA for facilities        $500,000  Holden                      Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Seton Hill University, Greensburg, PA to develop the           $500,000  Murphy, Tim                 Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Advanced Certificate in Orthodontics, including
                                   Health Facilities and          purchase of equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Shands Healthcare, Gainesville, FL, for equipment              $100,000  Crenshaw                    Bill Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sharon Regional Health System, Sharon, PA, for                 $100,000  Dahlkemper                  Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Shepherd Center, Atlanta, GA, for facilities and               $200,000                              Isakson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Shore Memorial Hospital, Somers Point, NJ for                  $500,000  LoBiondo                    Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sierra County, Truth or Consequences, NM, for                  $125,000  Teague                      Tom Udall; Bingaman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Sierra Vista Hospital
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Signature Healthcare, Brockton, MA, for equipment              $100,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sisters of Providence Health System, Springfield, MA           $200,000  Neal                        Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sisters of St. Francis Health Services, Inc., Olympia          $350,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Fields, IL for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Skagit Valley Hospital, Mount Vernon, WA for facilities        $800,000  Larsen (WA)                 Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Somerset Medical Center, Somerville, NJ for an                 $600,000  Frelinghuysen               Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        electronic medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  South Boston Community Health Center, Boston, MA for           $100,000  Lynch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  South Shore Hospital, Chicago, IL for facilities and           $250,000  Jackson (IL)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  South Shore Hospital, Weymouth, MA, for equipment              $300,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southeast Arkansas College, Pine Bluff, AR for                 $200,000  Ross
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the nursing school
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southeast Georgia Health System, Brunswick, GA for           $1,000,000  Kingston
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau, MO        $205,000  Emerson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for the SHOW Mobile initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville, IL, for a          $500,000  Shimkus                     Durbin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        nursing education program, including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, for                 $300,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southern Utah University, Cedar City, UT for facilities        $350,000  Matheson                    Bennett
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southwest Center for HIV/AIDS, Phoenix, AZ for                 $300,000  Pastor (AZ)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Southwest Tennessee Community College, Memphis, TN, for        $400,000  Cohen                       Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sparrow Health System, Lansing, MI for an electronic           $300,000  Rogers (MI)                 Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System, Spartanburg,           $500,000                              Graham
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        SC, for professional development
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids, MI for purchase of              $200,000  Ehlers
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  SSM Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital, Saint Louis,       $1,000,000                              Bond
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        MO, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  SSM St. Mary's Health Center, Jefferson City, MO for           $200,000  Skelton
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Ambrose University, Davenport, IA for facilities           $600,000  Braley (IA)                 Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Bernardine Medical Center, San Bernardino, CA for          $500,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Bernardine Medical Center, San Bernardino, CA for          $500,000  Baca
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for an MRI system
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Bernard's Development Foundation, Jonesboro, AR for        $400,000  Berry                       Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Clare's Health System, Denville, NJ for facilities         $600,000  Frelinghuysen               Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Elizabeth Regional Health, Lafayette, IN for               $300,000  Buyer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Francis Hospital, Charleston, WV for facilities and        $650,000  Capito
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Francis Medical Center, Trenton, NJ for facilities         $350,000  Smith (NJ)                  Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Francis Memorial Hospital, San Francisco, CA for           $500,000  Pelosi
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. John West Shore Hospital, Westlake, OH for                 $500,000  Kucinich                    Voinovich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. John's Hospital, Berryville, AR for facilities and         $200,000  Boozman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. John's Hospital, Maplewood, MN for facilities and          $675,000  McCollum                    Franken
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. John's Riverside Hospital, Yonkers, NY for                 $250,000  Lowey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph Health System, Inc., Tawas City, MI for             $500,000  Stupak                      Stabenow; Levin
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph Hospital, Eureka, CA for facilities and             $350,000  Thompson (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph Hospital/Peace Health, Bellingham, WA for           $300,000  Larsen (WA)                 Murray
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph of the Pines, Southern Pines, NC for                $453,000  Coble
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        purchase and outfitting of a mobile health unit
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph's Mercy Care Services, Inc., Atlanta, GA for        $200,000  Lewis (GA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Joseph's/Candler Health System, Savannah, GA for           $350,000  Barrow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Luke's Health System, Boise, ID for facilities and         $350,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Mary's Hospital, Passaic, NJ for facilities and            $950,000  Pascrell                    Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Mary's Regional Medical Center, Reno, NV for               $700,000  Heller
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Vincent Charity Hospital, Cleveland, OH for                $700,000  Fudge                       Voinovich; Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Vincent Healthcare Foundation, Billings, MT for            $400,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  St. Vincent Mercy Medical Center, Toledo, OH for               $200,000  Kaptur
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Staten Island University Hospital, Staten Island, NY           $600,000  McMahon                     Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Stewart-Marchman-Act Foundation, Inc., Daytona Beach,          $800,000  Mica                        Bill Nelson
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        FL for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Straub Hospital Burn Center, Honolulu, HI, for                 $150,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Suffolk County Department of Health Services,                  $200,000  Bishop (NY)                 Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Hauppauge, NY, to implement an electronic health
                                   Health Facilities and          record system
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Summa Foundation, Akron, OH for facilities and                 $250,000  Ryan (OH); Sutton
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for the Center for Minority Health and
                                   Health Facilities and          Health Disparities Solutions
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Sun Life Family Health Center, Casa Grande, AZ for             $300,000  Kirkpatrick (AZ)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Susquehanna Health, Williamsport, PA, for equipment            $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Taunton Nursing Home, Taunton, MA for facilities and           $650,000  Frank (MA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Temple Health and Bioscience Economic Development              $750,000  Carter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        District, Temple, TX for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Temple University Health System, Philadelphia, PA, for         $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Tennessee Department of Health, Nashville, TN, for             $150,000                              Alexander
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Health Harris Methodist Hospital Fort Worth, Ft.         $300,000  Granger
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Worth, TX for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Health Institute, Austin, TX, for facilities and         $150,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El             $400,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Paso, El Paso, TX, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock,         $300,000  Conaway
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        TX for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Tech University Paul L Foster School of Medicine,        $100,000                              Cornyn
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        El Paso, TX, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for facilities and          $480,000  Neugebauer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for the Center for          $250,000  Neugebauer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        the Study of Addiction
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Wesleyan University, Ft. Worth, TX for facilities        $650,000  Granger; Burgess
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Texas Woman's University, Denton, TX, for facilities           $300,000  Johnson, Eddie Bernice      Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  The Manor, Jonesville, MI, for facilities and equipment        $150,000                              Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        at the Treatment and Counseling Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA         $800,000  Brady (PA)                  Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Touro University Nevada, Henderson, NV, for facilities         $750,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment at the Gerontology Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Town of Gilbert, Gilbert, WV, for facilities and             $3,000,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for a primary health care center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen),              $300,000  Pastor (AZ); Mitchell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Phoenix, AZ for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  TriHealth, Cincinnati, OH, for facilities and equipment        $100,000  Driehaus                    Voinovich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Trinitas Health Foundation, Elizabeth, NJ, for                 $400,000  Sires                       Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Trinity Regional Medical Center, Ft. Dodge, IA for             $694,000  Latham                      Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Troy University, Troy, AL for facilities and equipment         $500,000  Bright
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Tulsa Fire Department, Tulsa, OK, for equipment                $100,000                              Inhofe
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Tyrone Hospital, Tyrone, PA, for facilities and                $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Health, St. Thomas,          $500,000  Christensen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        VI for facilities and equipment for an Emergency
                                   Health Facilities and          Medical Services Administrative and Clinical Health
                                   Services                       Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Health, St. Thomas,          $200,000  Christensen
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        VI for facilities and equipment for the Eldra
                                   Health Facilities and          Schulterbrandt Long-Term Care Facility
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  UAW Local 1005, Parma, OH for facilities and equipment         $300,000  Kucinich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for a health clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  UMass Memorial Health Care, Worcester, MA, for health          $500,000  McGovern                    Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Union College, Barbourville, KY for facilities and             $500,000  Rogers (KY)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Union Hospital, Terre Haute, IN, for facilities and            $100,000                              Lugar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Unity Health System, Rochester, NY for facilities and          $800,000  Lee (NY); Slaughter         Gillibrand
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University Hospitals, Chardon, OH for an electronic            $250,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        medical records initiative
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University Medical Center at Brackenridge, Austin, TX,         $150,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University Medical Center Foundation, El Paso, TX for          $600,000  Reyes
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University Medical Center of Southern Nevada, Las            $1,500,000                              Reid
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Vegas, NV, for facilities and equipment for the
                                   Health Facilities and          Women's Care and Birth Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, for facilities       $10,250,000                              Shelby
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little            $750,000  Berry                       Lincoln; Pryor
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Rock, AR, for facilities and equipment at the Winthrop
                                   Health Facilities and          P Rockefeller Cancer Institute
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of California -- Riverside, Riverside, CA         $4,000,000  Calvert; Baca; Bono Mack;   Feinstein
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment                                             Lewis (CA)
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of California, Davis Medical Center,                $375,000  Matsui
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Sacramento, CA for facilities and equipment for the
                                   Health Facilities and          surgery and emergency services pavilion
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of California-San Diego, San Diego, CA for          $500,000  Davis (CA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health professions training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Colorado--Denver, Aurora, CO to expand           $575,000  Salazar                     Mark Udall; Bennet
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        physician training in rural areas
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine,            $1,500,000  Perlmutter; Polis           Bennet; Udall, Mark
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Aurora, CO for facilities and equipment for the Linda
                                   Health Facilities and          Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Florida, Gainesville, FL for facilities          $350,000  Wasserman Schultz; Stearns
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Georgia, Athens, GA, for facilities and          $100,000                              Chambliss
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Guam, Mangilao, GU for facilities and            $400,000  Bordallo
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Hawaii at Hilo, Hilo, HI, for a nurse            $350,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        training program
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Hawaii School of Medicine, Honolulu, HI,         $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        to expand medical education
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Hawaii School of Nursing-Manoa, Honolulu,        $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        HI, for nursing education, including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Illinois at Chicago College of Medicine          $250,000  Manzullo
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        at Rockford, IL for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Illinois- College of Medicine at Peoria,         $400,000  Schock
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Peoria, IL for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Iowa, Carver College of Medicine, Iowa         $2,000,000  Loebsack                    Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        City, IA, for facilities and equipment for the
                                   Health Facilities and          Institute for Biomedical Discovery
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, for facilities and        $1,000,000  Loebsack                    Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment at the College of Public Health
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Kansas Medical Center, Wichita, KS for           $500,000  Tiahrt
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        development of the Clinical Skills Simulation
                                   Health Facilities and          Laboratory, including curriculum development and
                                   Services                       purchase of equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS for facilities and        $1,500,000  Jenkins; Moran (KS)         Roberts
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington,       $2,000,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        KY, for data base design and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington,       $1,300,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        KY, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Kentucky Research Foundation, Lexington,       $2,000,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        KY, to expand a heart disease prevention initiative in
                                   Health Facilities and          rural Kentucky
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Louisiana at Monroe, Monroe, LA for              $840,000  Alexander                   Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment, including purchase of a
                                   Health Facilities and          mobile dental unit
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Louisville Research Foundation,                $1,000,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Louisville, KY, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Louisville Research Foundation,                $1,000,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Louisville, KY, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Louisville Research Foundation,                $2,500,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Louisville, KY, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Louisville Research Foundation,                  $800,000                              McConnell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Louisville, KY, for health professions training and
                                   Health Facilities and          facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Maine at Augusta, Augusta, ME, for               $650,000  Michaud                     Collins
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Bangor dental clinic
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Maryland Medical System, Baltimore, MD           $400,000  Kratovil
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment for an emergency medical
                                   Health Facilities and          facility in Queen Anne's County
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL for facilities           $750,000  Diaz-Balart, Mario
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI for        $500,000  Dingell                     Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS,       $8,000,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Mississippi, University, MS, for               $1,500,000                              Cochran
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the             $600,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Center for Thermal Pharmaceutical Processing,
                                   Health Facilities and          including facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, NV, for         $750,000                              Reid; Ensign
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment at the Center for Molecular
                                   Health Facilities and          Medicine
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of North Alabama, Florence, AL for                  $700,000  Griffith                    Sessions
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of North Alabama, Florence, AL, for nursing         $100,000                              Sessions
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        education and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of North Carolina at Greensboro, Greensboro,        $300,000  Coble; Miller (NC)          Burr; Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        NC, for telespeech initiative including purchase of
                                   Health Facilities and          equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of North Texas, Denton, TX, for facilities          $350,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Oklahoma--College of Medicine, Tulsa, OK         $300,000  Sullivan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, for equipment        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        relating to cancer diagnostics and treatment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus, San         $300,000  Pierluisi
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Juan, PR for facilities and equipment for the Unit of
                                   Health Facilities and          Comparative Medicine
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Scranton, Scranton, PA, for nursing and          $100,000  Kanjorski                   Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        allied health programs, including the purchase of
                                   Health Facilities and          equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL for facilities       $2,500,000  Bonner                      Sessions
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, for health            $100,000                              Sessions
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information systems including equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee, Tampa, FL        $250,000  Buchanan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for nursing program facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of South Florida, Tampa, FL for the Cancer          $500,000  Young (FL); Bilirakis
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Clinical Trial project
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Southern Maine, Portland, ME, for                $775,000  Pingree (ME)                Snowe; Collins
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,           $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for a relapse prevention program, including for
                                   Health Facilities and          facilities and equipment
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS,         $2,750,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of St. Francis, Fort Wayne, IN for                  $200,000  Visclosky                   Lugar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for nurse training
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Tennessee Medical Center, Knoxville, TN        $1,350,000  Duncan                      Alexander; Corker
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX for            $650,000  Barton (TX)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas at Brownsville, Brownsville, TX for        $500,000  Ortiz
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, for                 $350,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston,          $150,000                              Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        TX, for facilities and equipment for MedBank
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center at San               $300,000  Rodriguez                   Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Antonio, TX, for facilities, equipment, and technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler, TX,        $300,000  Gohmert                     Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX         $100,000  Culberson; Green, Al        Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment for the Center for
                                   Health Facilities and          Translational Neoroinformatics
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio,        $150,000  Smith (TX); Gonzalez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        TX for facilities and equipment at the Center for
                                   Health Facilities and          Innovation in Prevention and Treatment of Airway
                                   Services                       Diseases
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio,        $270,000  Cuellar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        TX for facilities and equipment at the
                                   Health Facilities and          Neurodegenerative and Cognitive Dysfunction Center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center,            $1,000,000  Culberson                   Hutchison
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Houston, TX for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, for health           $1,500,000                              Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        information technology
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for             $100,000                              Hatch; Bennett
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for             $500,000                              Bennett
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, for             $500,000                              Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment related to outbreak
                                   Health Facilities and          management
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Department of Health, Salt Lake City, UT, to              $600,000                              Hatch; Bennett
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        expand Monticello Health Education and Screening
                                   Health Facilities and          Initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Personalized Health Care Institute at the                 $100,000                              Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, to establish a
                                   Health Facilities and          personalized medicine infrastructure
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Utah Valley University, Orem, UT, for health                   $350,000  Bishop (UT)                 Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        professions development and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Valley Presbyterian Hospital, Van Nuys, CA for                 $300,000  Berman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Van Wert County Hospital, Van Wert, OH for facilities          $840,000  Latta                       Voinovich; Brown
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Vanguard University, Costa Mesa, CA for facilities and         $300,000  Rohrabacher
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Variety--The Children's Charity of Wisconsin,                   $40,000  Moore (WI)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Milwaukee, WI for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Vermont State Colleges, Randolph Center, VT, for               $700,000                              Leahy
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment to expand nursing programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Victor Valley Community Hospital, Victorville, CA for          $250,000  McKeon                      Boxer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA for             $600,000  Scott (VA); Wittman         Warner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the Massey Cancer Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Virginia State University, Petersburg, VA, for                 $100,000  Forbes                      Warner; Webb
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment to expand nursing programs
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Visiting Nurse Services of Putnam County, Avon, IN for         $100,000  Ellsworth
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Visiting Nurse Services, Indianapolis, IN, for                 $100,000                              Lugar
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment and health professions
                                   Health Facilities and          training
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Visiting Nurses Association Healthcare Partners of             $200,000  LaTourette; Sutton;
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Ohio, Cleveland, OH for health professions training                      Kucinich
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Viterbo University, La Crosse, WI, for facilities and          $300,000                              Kohl
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment for the nursing school
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wadsworth-Rittman Hospital Foundation, Wadsworth, OH           $600,000  Boccieri
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wake County, Raleigh, NC, for facilities and equipment         $300,000  Miller (NC); Price (NC)     Burr; Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wake Health Services, Inc., Raleigh, NC for facilities         $750,000  Miller (NC); Etheridge      Burr; Hagan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Warren Achievement Center, Inc., Monmouth, IL for rural        $100,000  Hare
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health outreach
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Warren County Community College, Washington, NJ for            $350,000  Garrett (NJ)                Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Warren County Planning Commission, Warren, PA for              $350,000  Thompson (PA)
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        health care facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Washington County Hospital, Hagerstown, MD for                 $750,000  Bartlett
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment and for an electronic medical
                                   Health Facilities and          records initiative
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Washington State University, Spokane, WA, for                  $900,000  McMorris Rodgers; Baird     Murray; Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment for the College of Nursing
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Weber State University, Ogden, UT for expansion of             $750,000  Bishop (UT)                 Bennett; Hatch
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        nursing programs, including purchase of equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  WellSpan Health, York, PA for purchase of equipment            $100,000  Platts
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wesley College, Dover, DE, for renovation and equipping        $200,000  Castle                      Carper; Kaufman
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        of the nursing school
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  West Jefferson Medical Center, Marrero, LA for                 $100,000  Scalise                     Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  West Liberty State College, West Liberty, WV for                $50,000  Mollohan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission,            $4,000,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Charleston, WV, for facilities and equipment relating
                                   Health Facilities and          to healthcare training
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  West Virginia University Health Sciences, Morgantown,        $1,000,000                              Rockefeller
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        WV, for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, for                $1,500,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        construction of a Multiple Sclerosis Center
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  WestCare Health Systems, Sylva, NC for facilities and          $350,000  Shuler
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, NY, for equipment        $150,000                              Gillibrand; Schumer
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wheeling Hospital, Inc., Wheeling, WV for facilities           $150,000  Mollohan
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  White Memorial Medical Charitable Foundation, Los              $500,000  Roybal-Allard
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        Angeles, CA for facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  White Plains Hospital Center, White Plains, NY for             $250,000  Lowey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wichita County Health Center, Leoti, KS, for facilities        $150,000                              Brownback
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wills Eye Health System, Philadelphia, PA for                  $150,000  Brady (PA)                  Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wilmington College, Wilmington, OH for facilities and          $200,000  Turner
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Windemere Rehabilitation Facility, Oak Bluffs, MA, for         $250,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Woman's Hospital, Baton Rouge, LA, for facilities and          $100,000  Alexander                   Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment to expand the neonatal intensive care unit
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Wood River Health Services, Hope Valley, RI, for               $200,000                              Reed
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  World Impact Good Samaritan Clinic, Wichita, KS for          $1,000,000  Tiahrt                      Brownback; Roberts
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Xavier University of New Orleans, LA for facilities and        $350,000  Cao                         Landrieu; Vitter
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital, Yakima, WA, for               $100,000                              Cantwell
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment to expand the pediatric
                                   Health Facilities and          center
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  York College of Pennsylvania, York, PA for facilities          $400,000  Platts                      Specter; Casey
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Youth Dynamics, Inc., Billings, MT for facilities and          $100,000  Rehberg                     Baucus; Tester
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Yukon-Kuskokwim Heath Corporation, Bethel, AK, for           $1,000,000                              Murkowski; Begich
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        facilities and equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Health Resources and Services  Zufall Health Center, Dover, NJ for facilities and             $225,000  Lance                       Lautenberg
 Services                          Administration (HRSA)--        equipment
                                   Health Facilities and
                                   Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HHS Office of the Secretary    BayCare Health System, Tampa, FL for a community-based         $200,000  Castor (FL)
 Services                          (OS)--Research &               health outreach program to address health disparities
                                   Demonstration (including       in South Pinellas and Hillsborough counties
                                   Minority & Women's Health)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HHS Office of the Secretary    Community Transportation Association of America,               $950,000                              Harkin
 Services                          (OS)--Research &               Washington, DC, for technical assistance to human
                                   Demonstration (including       services transportation providers on ADA requirements
                                   Minority & Women's Health)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HHS Office of the Secretary    South Central Family Health Center, Los Angeles, CA for        $100,000  Becerra
 Services                          (OS)--Research &               a community diabetes management initiative
                                   Demonstration (including
                                   Minority & Women's Health)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HHS Office of the Secretary    University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL for a health         $400,000  Miller (FL)
 Services                          (OS)--Research &               information technology evaluation project
                                   Demonstration (including
                                   Minority & Women's Health)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     American Combat Veterans of War, San Diego, CA for             $175,000  Filner
 Services                          Health Services                mental health services for returning veterans
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     American Red Cross, Lower Bucks County Chapter,                $100,000  Murphy, Patrick
 Services                          Health Services                Levittown, PA for mental health services and case
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      management
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Avera McKennan Hospital & University Health Center,            $300,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson
 Services                          Health Services                Sioux Falls, SD, for a program serving children with
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      emotional and behavioral disorders
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     BayCare Health System, Clearwater, FL for a mental             $200,000  Bilirakis
 Services                          Health Services                health initiative
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Bellfaire JCB, Shaker Heights, OH for the Social               $200,000  LaTourette
 Services                          Health Services                Advocates for Youth program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Eagle Butte, SD, for youth         $100,000  Herseth Sandlin             Johnson
 Services                          Health Services                suicide and substance abuse prevention programs
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     City of Detroit, MI for behavioral health services at          $700,000  Conyers                     Levin; Stabenow
 Services                          Health Services                the Grace Ross Health Center
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Foothill Family Service, Pasadena, CA for mental health        $200,000  Napolitano
 Services                          Health Services                services to children ages 0-5 and parenting education
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      that supports the services provided to the children
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Gateway Healthcare, Pawtucket, RI for behavioral health        $200,000  Kennedy
 Services                          Health Services                services for returning veterans
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Hathaway-Sycamores Child and Family Services, Pasadena,        $100,000  Schiff
 Services                          Health Services                CA for mental health and emotional support services
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      for children of the terminally ill during the illness
                                   Mental Health                  and after the death
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Heartland Health Outreach, Chicago, IL for a mental            $200,000  Schakowsky
 Services                          Health Services                health supportive services program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Hispanic Counseling Center, Hempstead, NY for mental           $200,000  McCarthy (NY); Israel
 Services                          Health Services                health services and treatment for the uninsured and
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      underinsured Hispanic population on Long Island
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Jacksonville Community Rehabilitation Center,                  $200,000  Brown, Corrine              Nelson, Bill
 Services                          Health Services                Jacksonville, FL for long-term substance abuse and
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      mental health programs for those with severe mental
                                   Mental Health                  health ailments
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     KidsPeace National Centers of New England, Ellsworth,          $150,000                              Snowe
 Services                          Health Services                ME, for the programmatic funding necessary to
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      facilitate the expansion of the KidsPeace Graham Lake
                                   Mental Health                  Autism Day Treatment Unit
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, Brooklyn, NY         $550,000  Weiner; Engel; McCarthy
 Services                          Health Services                for inpatient and outpatient mental health treatment                     (NY); Towns
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      services
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Oregon Partnership, Portland, OR, to provide suicide           $300,000  Blumenauer; Wu              Wyden; Merkley
 Services                          Health Services                prevention services to soldiers and military families
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Pacific Clinics, Arcadia, CA for mental health and             $500,000  Napolitano
 Services                          Health Services                suicide prevention programs for adolescents
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Rosebud, SD for suicide prevention        $500,000  Herseth Sandlin             Thune; Johnson
 Services                          Health Services                and early intervention services
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Spectrum Programs Inc., Miami, FL for a mental health          $200,000  Diaz-Balart, Lincoln
 Services                          Health Services                and substance abuse program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     St. Bernard Project, Chalmette, LA for mental health           $100,000  Melancon                    Landrieu
 Services                          Health Services                services
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     St. Luke's Hospital, Adult Behavioral Services, Cedar          $400,000  Loebsack                    Harkin; Grassley
 Services                          Health Services                Rapids, IA for behavioral health services
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, for mental             $100,000                              Martinez
 Services                          Health Services                health services for disabled veterans
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Volunteers of America, Wilkes-Barre, PA, for trauma            $100,000  Kanjorski                   Specter; Casey
 Services                          Health Services                recovery mental health services to children and
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      families
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Young & Healthy, Pasadena, CA for mental health care           $100,000  Schiff
 Services                          Health Services                for children who are uninsured or underinsured
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Youth Dynamics, Inc, Billings, MT, for a training              $100,000  Rehberg                     Tester; Baucus
 Services                          Health Services                program to help meet the mental health needs of those
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      living in rural or frontier States
                                   Mental Health
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Betty Ford Institute, Palm Springs, CA for a substance         $250,000  Bono Mack
 Services                          Health Services                abuse prevention and training initiative
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Bucks County Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence,        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Health Services                Inc, Doylestown, PA, to expand drug and alcohol
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      prevention programs
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Coalition for a Drug-Free Hawaii, Honolulu, HI for a           $200,000  Abercrombie
 Services                          Health Services                youth alcohol abuse and suicide prevention program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Hamakua Health Center, Honokaa, HI, for a youth anti-          $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Health Services                drug program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Maryland Association of Youth Services Bureaus,                $100,000                              Cardin; Mikulski
 Services                          Health Services                Greenbelt, MD, for prevention and diversion services
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      to youth and their families
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Operation UNITE, Somerset, KY for a multi-school             $1,000,000  Rogers (KY)
 Services                          Health Services                substance abuse counseling and curriculum development
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      program
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, for        $100,000                              Specter
 Services                          Health Services                evidence-based prevention programs in schools and
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      communities to reduce youth substance abuse
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Postpartum Resource Center of New York, West Islip, NY         $100,000  Israel
 Services                          Health Services                for perinatal mood disorder prevention and early
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      detection programs, support groups, and a multilingual
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention     helpline
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Rhode Island State Nurses Association, Pawtucket, RI           $100,000  Kennedy
 Services                          Health Services                for substance abuse programs for nurses
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     St. Ann's Corner of Harm Reduction, Bronx, NY for              $100,000  Serrano
 Services                          Health Services                mental health consultations and substance abuse
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      prevention and treatment support services
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Waimanalo Health Center, Waimanalo, HI, for a youth            $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                          Health Services                anti-drug program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     West Virginia Prevention Resource Center, South              $1,500,000                              Byrd
 Services                          Health Services                Charleston, WV, for drug abuse prevention
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Prevention
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     A Safe Haven Foundation, Chicago, IL for behavioral            $300,000  Davis (IL)
 Services                          Health Services                health services for individuals affected by substance
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      abuse
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Chesterfield County, VA for the Dual Treatment Track           $143,000  Forbes                      Webb
 Services                          Health Services                program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     City of Farmington, NM, to provide evidence-based              $150,000  Lujan                       Bingaman; Tom Udall
 Services                          Health Services                substance abuse treatment to public inebriates
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Gavin Foundation, Inc., South Boston, MA for substance         $200,000  Lynch
 Services                          Health Services                abuse treatment services at its Cushing House facility
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      for adolescents
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Mercy Recovery Center, Westbrook, ME, for residential        $1,000,000                              Collins; Snowe
 Services                          Health Services                treatment programs
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Operation UNITE, Somerset, KY for a substance abuse          $1,000,000  Rogers (KY)
 Services                          Health Services                treatment and voucher program
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners,                 $300,000  Young (FL)
 Services                          Health Services                Clearwater, FL for a substance abuse treatment
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      initiative
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     San Francisco Department of Public Health, San                 $750,000  Pelosi
 Services                          Health Services                Francisco, CA for mental health and substance abuse
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--      services for homeless veterans
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      Substance Abuse and Mental     Tuesday's Children, Manhasset, NY for a mental health          $750,000  King (NY)
 Services                          Health Services                initiative
                                   Administration (SAMHSA)--
                                   Substance Abuse Treatment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Access Community Health Network, Chicago, IL for a job         $400,000  Roskam
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Alabama Institute for the Deaf and Blind, Talladega, AL        $200,000  Bachus; Rogers (AL)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for an employer training and job development
                                   Training & Employment          initiative
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Arkansas State University-Beebe, Searcy, AR for a              $200,000  Snyder                      Pryor; Lincoln
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training program for employment in the natural gas
                                   Training & Employment          industry
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Atlanta Christian College, East Point, GA, for training        $350,000  Kingston
                                   Administration (ETA)--         and curriculum development
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Baltimore City Mayor's Office of Employment                    $575,000  Sarbanes                    Mikulski
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Development, Baltimore, MD, for YouthWorks
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Beth Medrash Govoha, Lakewood, NJ for a job training           $275,000  Smith (NJ)                  Menendez; Lautenberg
                                   Administration (ETA)--         initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Blackhawk Technical College, Janesville, WI, to provide      $1,000,000                              Kohl
                                   Administration (ETA)--         job training to the unemployed and incumbent workers
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Brevard Workforce Development Board, Rockledge, FL for       $1,000,000  Posey; Kosmas               Bill Nelson
                                   Administration (ETA)--         a job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Bridge to Independence & Career Opportunities, Danbury,        $100,000  Murphy (CT)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         CT for job training and job placement
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA for job              $100,000  Frank (MA)                  Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Administration (ETA)--         placement services for veterans
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Bucks County Community College, Newtown, PA for                $600,000  Murphy, Patrick
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training at the Renewable Energy Academy
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Campbellsville-Taylor County Industrial Development            $500,000  Guthrie
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Authority, Campbellsville, KY for a job training
                                   Training & Employment          initiative
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Capital Workforce Partners, Hartford, CT, for a career         $300,000  Courtney; Larson (CT);      Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         competency development program                                           Murphy (CT)
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Capps Workforce Training Center, Stoneville, MS, for           $500,000                              Cochran
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Center for Employment Training, San Jose, CA for               $350,000  Lofgren, Zoe
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training dislocated workers and out-of-school youth
                                   Training & Employment          for green jobs
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of          $308,000                              Murkowski; Begich
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Alaska, Juneau, AK, to expand vocational training
                                   Training & Employment          including distance learning technologies
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Central Pennsylvania Institute of Science and                  $250,000  Thompson (PA)               Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Technology, Pleasant Gap, PA for job training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Chesapeake Bay Trust, Annapolis, MD, for the clean             $116,000  Kratovil                    Cardin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         water jobs training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Chicago House and Social Service Agency, Chicago, IL           $200,000  Schakowsky
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for an employment training and transitional jobs
                                   Training & Employment          program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Baltimore, Office of Employment Development, MD        $400,000  Ruppersberger
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for its BRAC Employment Preparedness Program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Chesapeake, VA for a job training initiative           $250,000  Forbes
                                   Administration (ETA)--
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Detroit, MI for its Summer Youth Services              $500,000  Kilpatrick (MI); Conyers    Levin; Stabenow
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of East Palo Alto, CA for workforce training in           $600,000  Eshoo
                                   Administration (ETA)--         green jobs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Emeryville, CA, for the East Bay Green Jobs            $200,000                              Boxer
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Initiative workforce development program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Grand Rapids, MI for the Our Community's               $350,000  Ehlers                      Levin; Stabenow
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Children job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Los Angeles, CA, for the Los Angeles Youth             $500,000                              Feinstein; Boxer
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Opportunity Movement workforce development program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Oakland, CA, for the East Bay Green Jobs               $600,000                              Feinstein
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Initiative workforce development program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Petersburg, Clearwater, FL for an employment           $200,000  Castor (FL)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         readiness program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of Richmond, CA for the Richmond BUILD Pre-               $700,000  Miller, George
                                   Administration (ETA)--         apprenticeship Construction Skills & Solar
                                   Training & Employment          Installation Training Program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of St. Petersburg, FL for the Summer Youth                $300,000  Castor (FL)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Internship/Green Workforce Readiness Training Program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        City of West Palm Beach, FL for its Youth Empowerment          $400,000  Wexler; Hastings (FL)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Centers
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Closing the Digital Gap, Lansing, MI for a computer-           $250,000  Rogers (MI)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         based job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Coastal Enterprises, Inc., Wiscasset, ME for workforce         $250,000  Pingree (ME)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training and evaluation at the CEI Green Business
                                   Training & Employment          Investment and Job Creation Initiative
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        College of Southern Idaho, Twin Falls, ID, for                 $100,000                              Crapo; Risch
                                   Administration (ETA)--         renewable energy job training program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Columbia Gorge Community College, The Dalles, OR for a         $350,000  Walden                      Wyden; Merkely
                                   Administration (ETA)--         renewable energy training program, including purchase
                                   Training & Employment          of equipment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Community Learning Center, Inc., Ft. Worth, TX for a           $500,000  Granger
                                   Administration (ETA)--         job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Community Transportation Association of America,               $450,000                              Harkin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Washington, DC, for the continuation of the Joblinks
                                   Training & Employment          program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Conservation Corps of Long Beach, Long Beach, CA for a         $225,000  Sanchez, Linda
                                   Administration (ETA)--         job training program for at-risk youth
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Covenant House Florida, Fort Lauderdale, FL for job            $550,000  Klein (FL); Wasserman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         readiness training                                                       Schultz
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Covenant House New Jersey, Newark, NJ, for a job               $100,000                              Lautenberg; Menendez
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Cypress Mandela Training Center, Inc., Oakland, CA for         $275,000  Lee (CA)                    Boxer
                                   Administration (ETA)--         pre-apprentice construction training for solar and
                                   Training & Employment          green jobs
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Danville Community College, Danville, VA for training          $100,000  Perriello
                                   Administration (ETA)--         at its Wood Products Advanced Manufacturing Lab
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Davinci Center for Community Progress, Providence, RI          $200,000  Kennedy
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for workforce education and training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        DaytonDefense, Beavercreek, OH for a job training              $300,000  Turner
                                   Administration (ETA)--         initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Des Moines Area Community College, Ankeny, IA for              $350,000  Boswell                     Harkin; Grassley
                                   Administration (ETA)--         dislocated worker training and job placement in
                                   Training & Employment          financial services, health care and construction
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Des Moines Area Community College, Ankeny, IA, for the         $400,000                              Harkin; Grassley
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Central Iowa Works Project Employment career
                                   Training & Employment          opportunities education program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Digital Workforce Academy, Austin, TX for a job                $300,000  Poe (TX)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Duke Media Foundation, Hollywood, CA for career                $100,000  Watson
                                   Administration (ETA)--         exploration and training for at-risk youth for jobs in
                                   Training & Employment          filmmaking
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        East Bay Regional Park District, Oakland, CA, for fire         $600,000  McNerney                    Feinstein
                                   Administration (ETA)--         and conservation crews training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Easter Seals Arc of NE Indiana, Ft. Wayne, IN for a job        $100,000  Souder
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training program for adults with disabilities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Filipino-American Service Group, Los Angeles, CA for           $250,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Administration (ETA)--         case management and job training for homeless
                                   Training & Employment          individuals
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Finishing Trades Institute, Philadelphia, PA, for              $100,000                              Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         weatherization job training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Flathead Valley Community College, Kalispell, MT,              $100,000  Rehberg                     Tester; Baucus
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Career Opportunities through Retraining and Education
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Florida Manufacturing Extension Partnership,                   $100,000  Crenshaw; Klein (FL);       Bill Nelson
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Celebration, FL, for the Florida mobile outreach                         Kosmas
                                   Training & Employment          skills training program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Fordham Bedford Children's Services, Bronx, NY for job         $100,000  Serrano
                                   Administration (ETA)--         placement, training, and workforce development
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Fort Belknap Indian Community, Harlem, MT, Fort Belknap        $100,000                              Tester; Baucus
                                   Administration (ETA)--         477 Employment & Training, Summer Youth Program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Fox Valley Technical College, Oshkosh, WI, to create an        $150,000                              Kohl
                                   Administration (ETA)--         accelerated, one year welder training program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Friends of Children of Mississippi, Jackson, MS, for           $200,000                              Cochran
                                   Administration (ETA)--         the TANF to Work and Ownership Project
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Germanna Community College, Fredericksburg, VA for             $100,000  Wittman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         nursing training and curriculum development
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Give Every Child A Chance, Manteca, CA for employment          $500,000  McNerney
                                   Administration (ETA)--         mentoring
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Guadalupe Centers, Inc., Kansas City, MO for its               $200,000  Cleaver
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Culinary Arts Institute job training and employment
                                   Training & Employment          program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        HARBEL Community Organization, Baltimore, MD for               $250,000  Ruppersberger
                                   Administration (ETA)--         unemployed and underemployed individuals
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Hard Hatted Women, Warren, OH for the Tradeswomen TOOLS        $200,000  Ryan (OH); Sutton           Brown
                                   Administration (ETA)--         program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Hartford Public Schools, Hartford, CT, for workforce           $275,000                              Dodd; Lieberman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         readiness and job placement services through
                                   Training & Employment          OPPortunity High School
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Haven for Hope of Bexar County, San Antonio, TX, for a         $200,000  Cuellar; Gonzalez; Smith    Hutchison; Cornyn
                                   Administration (ETA)--         homeless job training program                                            (TX)
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Hawkeye Community College, Waterloo, IA, for support of        $400,000                              Harkin; Grassley
                                   Administration (ETA)--         the Advance Manufacturing Training program, including
                                   Training & Employment          equipment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Highline Community College, Des Moines, WA for a               $250,000  Smith (WA)                  Murray
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce training, education, and outreach initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Hobbs Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Hobbs, NM, for              $200,000  Teague                      Bingaman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce development
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Homeboy Industries, Los Angeles, CA for solar panel            $300,000  Roybal-Allard
                                   Administration (ETA)--         installation training and certification for at-risk
                                   Training & Employment          young individuals in Los Angeles
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Hopkins House, Alexandria, VA for workforce development        $250,000  Moran (VA)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         and training in early childhood education
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Impact Services Corporation, Philadelphia, PA, for a           $100,000                              Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         community job training and placement program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        IndependenceFirst, Milwaukee, WI to provide employment         $100,000  Moore (WI)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         support services to persons with disabilities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Innovative Productivity, Inc., Louisville, KY for a job        $150,000  Davis (KY)                  Bunning
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Instituto del Progresso Latino, Chicago, IL, for               $375,000                              Durbin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         employment and training programs in health care for
                                   Training & Employment          limited English speaking individuals
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Jacksonville Center for the Arts, Floyd, VA for                $150,000  Boucher
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        JobPath, Inc., Tucson, AZ for underserved adults job           $200,000  Grijalva
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Jobs for Maine's Graduates, Inc, Augusta, ME, for              $200,000  Michaud                     Snowe; Collins
                                   Administration (ETA)--         career development for at-risk youth
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Jobs for Mississippi Graduates, Inc, Jackson, MS, for          $200,000                              Cochran
                                   Administration (ETA)--         career development for at-risk youth
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Johnstown Area Regional Industries, Inc., Johnstown, PA        $200,000  Murtha
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for its workforce development program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Lansing Community College, Lansing, MI for a job               $420,000  Rogers (MI); Schauer        Levin; Stabenow
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training initiative focused on alternative automotive
                                   Training & Employment          technologies
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Liberty Resources, Inc, Philadelphia, PA, for job              $100,000                              Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training programs for persons with disabilities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Lincoln Land Community College, Springfield, IL, for           $250,000                              Durbin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce development programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Living Classrooms of the National Capital Region,              $350,000  Norton
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Washington, DC for its youth workforce development
                                   Training & Employment          program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Local Area 1 Workforce Investment Board, Caribou, ME,          $500,000                              Collins; Snowe
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for workforce job opportunities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Los Angeles Community College District/Valley College,         $300,000  Berman
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Valley Glen, CA for workforce development in energy
                                   Training & Employment          efficiency and green technology fields
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Macomb Community College, Warren, MI for training              $550,000  Levin                       Levin; Stabenow
                                   Administration (ETA)--         displaced workers in the aerospace and defense
                                   Training & Employment          industries
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        MAGNET, Cleveland, OH for veterans workforce                   $200,000  Fudge; Kucinich; Sutton
                                   Administration (ETA)--         development, training, and job placement in the
                                   Training & Employment          manufacturing industry
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Maine Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Augusta, ME,        $500,000  Michaud                     Collins; Snowe
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for workforce job opportunities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Make the Road New York, Brooklyn, NY for English               $200,000  Velazquez; Weiner
                                   Administration (ETA)--         language and economic literacy training in low-income,
                                   Training & Employment          primarily immigrant communities
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Manchester Bidwell Corporation, Pittsburgh, PA, for job        $100,000                              Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training programs at Bidwell Training Center
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership,             $250,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Worcester, MA, for expansion of a workforce skills
                                   Training & Employment          training program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, Maui               $450,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Economic Development Board Science, Technology,
                                   Training & Employment          Engineering and Math (STEM) training
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Maui Economic Development Board, Kihei, HI, Rural              $300,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Computer Utilization Training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        McHenry County, Woodstock, IL for short-term                   $250,000  Bean
                                   Administration (ETA)--         occupational training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Metropolitan Community Colleges, Kansas City, MO for           $500,000  Cleaver
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training services at its Sustainability Training
                                   Training & Employment          Center
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Michigan Works, Benton Harbor, MI for the basic                $250,000  Upton                       Levin; Stabenow
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce transformation program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Milton S Eisenhower Foundation, Washington, DC, for job        $400,000                              Harkin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training, job placement and GED acquisition programs
                                   Training & Employment          in Iowa
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College, Perkinston,          $350,000                              Cochran
                                   Administration (ETA)--         MS, for workforce training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS,           $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for the Mississippi Integrated Workforce Performance
                                   Training & Employment          System
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Mississippi Technology Alliance, Ridgeland, MS, for            $250,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Mississippi Valley State University, Itta Bena, MS, for        $500,000                              Cochran; Wicker
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training and development at the Automated
                                   Training & Employment          Identification Technology/Automatic Data Collection
                                   Services (TES)                 Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Montana State University, Billings, MT, for job                $100,000  Rehberg                     Tester; Baucus
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        National Center for Family Literacy, Louisville, KY for        $100,000  Yarmuth
                                   Administration (ETA)--         integration of career awareness and job readiness
                                   Training & Employment          activities into a family literacy program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        National Council of Negro Women, Washington, DC for a          $350,000  Norton
                                   Administration (ETA)--         job readiness, life skills, and training program for
                                   Training & Employment          disadvantaged women
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Northeast Iowa Ironworkers-Cedar Rapids Local 89, Cedar        $250,000                              Harkin
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Rapids, IA, for workforce development
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Northern Marianas Trade Institute, Saipan, MP for              $200,000  Sablan
                                   Administration (ETA)--         vocational and technical training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Ocean Bay Community Development Corporation, Averne, NY        $100,000  Meeks (NY)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         for a workforce preparation program for youth and
                                   Training & Employment          young adults residing in public housing
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Oklahoma City Community College, Oklahoma City, OK for         $200,000  Fallin; Cole
                                   Administration (ETA)--         a veterans job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Opportunities Industrialization Center of Washington,          $150,000                              Murray
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Yakima, WA, to provide workforce and health and safety
                                   Training & Employment          training to agricultural workers
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        People for the Parks, Venice, CA for a program to train        $165,000  Becerra
                                   Administration (ETA)--         at-risk youth to maintain and operate sustainable
                                   Training & Employment          parks
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Philadelphia Shipyard Development Corporation,                 $100,000                              Specter; Casey
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Philadelphia, PA, for job training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Project ARRIBA, El Paso, TX, for workforce development         $100,000  Reyes                       Hutchison; Cornyn
                                   Administration (ETA)--         and economic opportunities in the West Texas region
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation,                 $500,000                              Reed
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Providence, RI, for support and delivery of job
                                   Training & Employment          training services
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        San Jacinto College, Pasadena, TX for workforce                $350,000  Olson
                                   Administration (ETA)--         development, which shall include purchase of equipment
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Sheppard Pratt Health System, Baltimore, MD, Work Force        $725,000  Sarbanes                    Mikulski
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Initiative for the Mentally Ill
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Southeastern Louisiana University, Hammond, LA for a           $150,000  Scalise                     Landrieu
                                   Administration (ETA)--         workforce development initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Southern Utah University, Cedar City, UT, for a                $400,000                              Bennett; Hatch
                                   Administration (ETA)--         renewable energy job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Southwest Virginia Community College, Richlands, VA for        $400,000  Boucher
                                   Administration (ETA)--         green jobs training in rural communities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Spokane Area Workforce Development Council, Spokane,           $250,000                              Murray; Cantwell
                                   Administration (ETA)--         WA, to support comprehensive regional planning efforts
                                   Training & Employment          to address the workforce challenges of the Spokane
                                   Services (TES)                 area
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation,            $150,000  Velazquez
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Brooklyn, NY for a workforce development initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Summit Academy OIC, Minneapolis, MN for a program              $400,000  Ellison                     Klobuchar; Franken
                                   Administration (ETA)--         focused on weatherization technician training and
                                   Training & Employment          residential energy auditing
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Team Taylor County, Campbellsville, KY, for job                $100,000                              Bunning
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        The Healing Place, Richmond, VA, for job training              $150,000                              Webb; Warner
                                   Administration (ETA)--         services
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Tulane University, New Orleans, LA for a community             $250,000  Scalise; Cao; Melancon      Landrieu; Vitter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         health worker training program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        UMWA Career Centers, Inc., Washington, PA for its mine         $550,000  Murtha
                                   Administration (ETA)--         worker training and employment programs
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        University of Hawaii-Maui, Kahului, HI, for Community        $2,000,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Administration (ETA)--         College Training & Education Opportunities program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        University of Hawaii-Maui, Kahului, HI, for the Remote       $2,300,000                              Inouye; Akaka
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Rural Hawaii Job Training Project
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Upper Rio Grande Workforce Solutions, El Paso, TX for          $200,000  Rodriguez
                                   Administration (ETA)--         its Rural Initiatives Program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Vanguard Services Unlimited, Arlington, VA for a               $250,000  Moran (VA)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         comprehensive vocational counselor training project
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Vermont Department of Public Safety, Waterbury, VT, for        $100,000                              Sanders
                                   Administration (ETA)--         firefighting and emergency services training support
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Vermont HITEC, Inc, Williston, VT, for the Vermont           $2,000,000                              Leahy
                                   Administration (ETA)--         HITEC Job Training Initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Vermont Technical College, Randolph Center, VT, for the        $750,000                              Leahy
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Vermont Green Jobs Workforce Development Initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Vocational Guidance Services, Cleveland, OH, for job           $100,000  Kucinich                    Voinovich
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training activities
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Wake Technical Community College, Raleigh, NC for job          $400,000  Price (NC); Miller (NC)     Hagan
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training in the computer simulation and green
                                   Training & Employment          automotive technologies industries
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Washington State Board for Community and Technical             $250,000                              Murray; Cantwell
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Colleges, Federal Way, WA, for training, on-the-job
                                   Training & Employment          support and career development services in the long-
                                   Services (TES)                 term care sector in Washington State
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Washington State Labor Council AFL-CIO, Seattle, WA, to        $200,000                              Murray
                                   Administration (ETA)--         help support the creation of a pathway for young
                                   Training & Employment          people to apprenticeship training programs in high
                                   Services (TES)                 demand industries across the State of Washington
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Washington State Workforce Training and Education              $850,000                              Murray
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Coordinating Board, Olympia, WA, to support the
                                   Training & Employment          development, expansion, delivery and testing of
                                   Services (TES)                 workplace-based education and training for low-income
                                                                  adult workers resulting in models for other States use
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Waukesha Technical College, Pewaukee, WI, to provide           $200,000                              Kohl
                                   Administration (ETA)--         job training to the unemployed and incumbent workers
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        West Los Angeles College, Culver City, CA for the              $600,000  Watson
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Pathways to 21st Century Careers program
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Workforce Opportunity Council, Concord, NH, for the            $100,000                              Shaheen
                                   Administration (ETA)--         advanced manufacturing portable classroom social
                                   Training & Employment          services research training program
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Workforce Services Unlimited, Inc., Circleville, OH for        $450,000  Turner
                                   Administration (ETA)--         a job training initiative
                                   Training & Employment
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Wrightco Educational Foundation, Ebensburg, PA, for            $100,000                              Specter
                                   Administration (ETA)--         security and communications technology job training
                                   Training & Employment          programs
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        WRTP/BIG STEP, Milwaukee, WI for workforce skills              $100,000  Moore (WI)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         training to match needs in the construction,
                                   Training & Employment          manufacturing and healthcare sectors
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation,               $305,000  Ryan (OH)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         Youngstown, OH for its Youngstown Grey to Green
                                   Training & Employment          Initiative to provide training in green jobs
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor               Employment and Training        Youth Radio, Oakland, CA for training of at-risk youth         $250,000  Lee (CA)
                                   Administration (ETA)--         in media production, digital technology and broadcast
                                   Training & Employment          engineering
                                   Services (TES)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Aerospace Museum of California Foundation, Inc.,               $930,000  Lungren, Dan
 Services                                                         McClellan, CA for maintenance of collections
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Alameda County Library Foundation, Fremont, CA for             $300,000  Lee (CA)
 Services                                                         technology and equipment for the Castro Calley Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Bishop Museum, Honolulu, HI, for assessments and               $200,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 Services                                                         educational programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Botanical Research Institute of Texas, Ft. Worth, TX to        $500,000  Granger
 Services                                                         enhance collections
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Cape Cod Maritime Museum, Cape Cod, MA, for the                $100,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                                                         continued development of exhibits and educational
                                                                  programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Cedar Rapids Public Library, Cedar Rapids, IA, for             $500,000  Loebsack                    Harkin; Grassley
 Services                                                         library services, including RFID upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Center for American History, Austin, TX for educational        $250,000  Hall (TX)
 Services                                                         programming at the Sam Rayburn Library and Museum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Children's Discovery Museum of San Jose, San Jose, CA          $120,000  Lofgren, Zoe
 Services                                                         for education programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Chino Hills, CA for library facility                   $250,000  Miller, Gary
 Services                                                         improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Daphne, AL for library equipment                       $100,000  Bonner
 Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Desert Hot Springs, CA for preservation of             $100,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                                                         collections at the Cabot's Pueblo Museum
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Hagerstown, MD, to restore and display the             $150,000                              Cardin
 Services                                                         Doleman collection
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of San Diego, CA for books, technology, education          $25,000  Filner
 Services                                                         and outreach programs for the Skyline Hills Branch
                                                                  Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Twin Falls, ID to digitize collections                 $100,000  Simpson                     Crapo; Risch
 Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            City of Yucaipa, CA for expanded library collections           $100,000  Lewis (CA)
 Services                                                         and technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Czech & Slovak Museum & Library, Cedar Rapids, IA, for         $500,000                              Harkin
 Services                                                         exhibits
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Downingtown Library Senior Center, Downingtown, PA to          $350,000  Gerlach
 Services                                                         expand collections and for technology upgrades
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Eagle Mountain City, UT, for the purchase of equipment         $100,000                              Bennett; Hatch
 Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Florida Holocaust Museum, St. Petersburg, FL for               $200,000  Young (FL)
 Services                                                         exhibits, collections and educational outreach
                                                                  programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Gig Harbor History Museum, Gig Harbor, WA for exhibits         $200,000  Dicks
 Services                                                         and interactive displays
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Glenville State College, Glenville, WV for programming         $350,000  Mollohan
 Services                                                         and equipment for the college library's veteran's
                                                                  history project
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Great Lakes Science Center, Cleveland, OH, for                 $200,000                              Voinovich
 Services                                                         education, outreach and exhibits
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Gulf Coast Exploreum Science Center, Mobile, AL for            $100,000  Bonner
 Services                                                         exhibits and educational outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Holyoke Public Library, Holyoke, MA, for educational           $100,000                              Kennedy; Kerry; Kirk
 Services                                                         equipment and technology infrastructure
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Iowa Radio Reading Information Service for the Blind           $100,000                              Harkin
 Services                                                         and Print Handicapped, Inc, Des Moines, IA, for the
                                                                  upgrade of tuner receivers and the purchase of
                                                                  equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Isamue Noguchi Foundation and Garden Museum, Long               $30,000  Maloney
 Services                                                         Island City, NY for conservation projects
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Louisiana Children's Museum, New Orleans, LA, to               $250,000                              Landrieu
 Services                                                         establish an early childhood and parenting program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            McLean County Fiscal Court, Calhoun, KY, for equipment         $250,000  Whitfield                   Bunning
 Services                                                         and technology at Livermore Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Mississippi Children's Museum, Jackson, MS, for                $300,000                              Cochran
 Services                                                         installation, exhibits and educational programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College, Perkinston,          $100,000                              Cochran
 Services                                                         MS, for archive of newspaper and digital media
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Mississippi Museum of Natural Science Foundation,              $220,000  Harper                      Wicker
 Services                                                         Jackson, MS for educational outreach programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Mississippi Museum of Natural Science Foundation,              $100,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                                                         Jackson, MS, for science education exhibits and
                                                                  outreach programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Morris Museum, Morristown, NJ for exhibits and                 $300,000  Frelinghuysen; Rothman      Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                                                         educational programming                                                  (NJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Museum of Aviation, Warner Robins, GA for science and          $350,000  Marshall                    Chambliss
 Services                                                         educational programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago, IL for teacher        $175,000  Jackson (IL); Schakowsky
 Services                                                         professional development
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mystic, CT for technology         $500,000  Courtney                    Dodd; Lieberman
 Services                                                         based educational programs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            National Mississippi River Museum and Aquarium,                $500,000                              Harkin; Grassley
 Services                                                         Dubuque, IA, for exhibits relating to the Mississippi
                                                                  River
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            National Voting Rights Museum & Institute, Selma, AL           $450,000  Davis (AL)
 Services                                                         for the preservation and restoration of exhibits
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Native American Cultural Center and Museum, Oklahoma           $750,000  Cole
 Services                                                         City, OK for exhibits and educational programming
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            New Jersey State Library Talking Book and Braille              $100,000  Holt                        Lautenberg; Menendez
 Services                                                         Center, Trenton, NJ for an awareness campaign and
                                                                  digital materials
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Oakland Museum of California, Oakland, CA for a                $250,000  Lee (CA)
 Services                                                         technology initiative for educational outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Orange County Library System, Orlando, FL for Spanish          $500,000  Grayson
 Services                                                         language media and books
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Phoenixville Public Library, Phoenixville, PA to               $157,000  Gerlach
 Services                                                         enhance collections
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Robert Russa Moton Museum, Farmville, VA, to develop           $100,000  Perriello                   Warner; Webb
 Services                                                         and install exhibitions on civil rights
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Sewall-Belmont House and Museum, Washington, DC, for         $1,000,000                              Landrieu; Cantwell
 Services                                                         exhibitions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            St. Louis Art Museum Foundation, St. Louis, MO for             $225,000  Clay                        Bond
 Services                                                         restoration and reinstallation of exhibits
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Tallahatchie County Board of Supervisors, Glendora, MS         $400,000  Thompson (MS)
 Services                                                         for preservation of exhibits and collections for the
                                                                  Emmett Till memorial complex
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Texas Southern University, Robert Terry Library and            $300,000  Jackson-Lee (TX)
 Services                                                         Mickey Leland Center, Houston, TX for archive
                                                                  preservation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX for the Virtual             $850,000  Johnson, Sam
 Services                                                         Vietnam Archive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Site Foundation, Buffalo,         $150,000  Slaughter
 Services                                                         NY for exhibits and interactive displays
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Town of Jamestown, Jamestown, CA for books and                 $100,000  Clyburn
 Services                                                         materials for the Jamestown County Library
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            University of Mississippi, University, MS, for                 $450,000                              Cochran; Wicker
 Services                                                         preserving and digitizing recordings in the modern
                                                                  political library archives
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            University of Mississippi, University, MS, for the             $300,000                              Cochran
 Services                                                         American Music Archives
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Washington National Opera, Washington, DC, for set             $200,000                              Cochran
 Services                                                         design, installation, and performing arts at libraries
                                                                  and schools
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Witte Museum, San Antonio, TX for exhibits and                 $250,000  Smith (TX); Gonzalez        Hutchison
 Services                                                         educational outreach
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            World Food Prize, Des Moines, IA, for exhibits                 $750,000  Boswell                     Harkin; Grassley
 Services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Institute of Museum & Library     Museums & Libraries            Young at Art Children's Museum, Davie, FL for the              $100,000  Wasserman Schultz; Wexler
 Services                                                         Global Village educational program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Innovation and Improvement     Close Up Fellowships Program for activities authorized       $1,942,000  Grijalva; Hirono; Johnson   Harkin
 National Projects                                                under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act                         (GA); Moran (VA);
                                                                                                                                           Oberstar; Payne; Ross;
                                                                                                                                           Sarbanes; Wu; Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Innovation and Improvement     Communities in Schools for activities authorized under       $3,500,000                              Murray; Begich; Burris;
 National Projects                                                the Elementary and Secondary Education Act                                                           Cantwell; Gillibrand;
                                                                                                                                                                       Kerry; Klobuchar; Levin;
                                                                                                                                                                       Martinez; Menendez;
                                                                                                                                                                       Rockefeller; Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Innovation and Improvement     National History Day for activities authorized under           $500,000  Abercrombie; Bordallo;      Akaka; Bingaman; Kennedy;
 National Projects                                                the Elementary and Secondary Education Act                               Gerlach; Grijalva;          Kerry; Kirk
                                                                                                                                           Hirono; Pingree (ME);
                                                                                                                                           Ross; Van Hollen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Innovation and Improvement     Reach Out and Read authorized under the Elementary and       $6,000,000  Abercrombie; Arcuri;        Harkin; Bennett; Reed;
 National Projects                                                Secondary Education Act                                                  Berkley; Brown (SC);        Lautenberg; Leahy; Pryor;
                                                                                                                                           Capps; Capuano; Cardoza;    Voinovich; Akaka; Begich;
                                                                                                                                           Carnahan; Castor (FL);      Bingaman; Brown; Bunning;
                                                                                                                                           Clarke; Conyers; Costa;     Burr; Cantwell; Casey;
                                                                                                                                           Crowley; Davis (AL);        Chambliss; Cornyn; Dodd;
                                                                                                                                           Davis (CA); Davis (IL);     Gillibrand; Grassley;
                                                                                                                                           Doyle; Ellison; Eshoo;      Hagan; Kennedy; Kerry;
                                                                                                                                           Fattah; Gerlach;            Klobuchar; Levin;
                                                                                                                                           Giffords; Gonzalez;         Lieberman; Lincoln;
                                                                                                                                           Green, Gene; Grijalva;      Lugar; Martinez;
                                                                                                                                           Gutierrez; Halvorson;       Menendez; Merkley;
                                                                                                                                           Herseth Sandlin;            Rockefeller; Sanders;
                                                                                                                                           Hinojosa; Hirono; Holt;     Schumer; Sessions;
                                                                                                                                           Johnson (GA); Johnson,      Shaheen; Stabenow; Tom
                                                                                                                                           Eddie Bernice; Kildee;      Udall; Warner;
                                                                                                                                           Kirkpatrick (AZ);           Whitehouse; Wyden; Kirk
                                                                                                                                           Kucinich; Langevin; Lee
                                                                                                                                           (NY); Loebsack; Lofgren,
                                                                                                                                           Zoe; Marshall; McCarthy
                                                                                                                                           (NY); McDermott;
                                                                                                                                           McGovern; McHugh; Moore
                                                                                                                                           (WI); Murphy (CT); Nadler
                                                                                                                                           (NY); Napolitano;
                                                                                                                                           Oberstar; Paul; Payne;
                                                                                                                                           Perriello; Price (NC);
                                                                                                                                           Rahall; Rogers (MI);
                                                                                                                                           Roskam; Ross; Rush;
                                                                                                                                           Sarbanes; Scott (GA);
                                                                                                                                           Scott (VA); Shea-Porter;
                                                                                                                                           Sherman; Slaughter; Smith
                                                                                                                                           (NJ); Snyder; Spratt;
                                                                                                                                           Tauscher; Tonko; Waxman;
                                                                                                                                           Yarmuth; Young (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Safe Schools and Citizenship   Center for Civic Education for two programs (We the         $21,617,000  Abercrombie; Baca; Capps;   Reed; Johnson; Lautenberg;
 National Projects                 Education                      People and Cooperative Education Exchange) that are                      Capuano; Carnahan; Castor   Leahy; Tester; Akaka;
                                                                  authorized in the Elementary and Secondary Education                     (FL); Costa; Davis (CA);    Baucus; Begich; Bingaman;
                                                                  Act as part of the Civic Education program                               Davis (IL); Dicks;          Brown; Cantwell; Carper;
                                                                                                                                           Etheridge; Green, Gene;     Dodd; Grassley; Kaufman;
                                                                                                                                           Grijalva; Gutierrez;        Kennedy; Kerry;
                                                                                                                                           Herseth Sandlin;            Klobuchar; Levin;
                                                                                                                                           Hinojosa; Hirono;           Lieberman; Lincoln;
                                                                                                                                           Johnson, Eddie Bernice;     Lugar; Menendez;
                                                                                                                                           Kildee; Langevin;           Rockefeller; Sanders;
                                                                                                                                           Lofgren, Zoe; McCarthy      Schumer; Shaheen;
                                                                                                                                           (CA); McGovern; Miller      Stabenow; Tom Udall;
                                                                                                                                           (NC); Oberstar; Pomeroy;    Warner; Webb; Whitehouse;
                                                                                                                                           Rahall; Roskam; Ross;       Wyden; Kirk
                                                                                                                                           Shea-Porter; Van Hollen;
                                                                                                                                           Waxman; Yarmuth; Young
                                                                                                                                           (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Safe Schools and Citizenship   National Council on Economic Education for the               $5,019,000  Abercrombie; Baca; Capps;   Reed; Johnson; Lautenberg;
 National Projects                 Education                      Cooperative Education Exchange program, which is                         Capuano; Carnahan; Castor   Leahy; Tester; Akaka;
                                                                  authorized in the Elementary and Secondary Education                     (FL); Costa; Davis (CA);    Baucus; Begich; Bingaman;
                                                                  Act as part of the Civic Education Program                               Davis (IL); Dicks;          Brown; Cantwell; Carper;
                                                                                                                                           Etheridge; Green, Gene;     Dodd; Grassley; Kaufman;
                                                                                                                                           Grijalva; Gutierrez;        Kennedy; Kerry;
                                                                                                                                           Herseth Sandlin;            Klobuchar; Levin;
                                                                                                                                           Hinojosa; Hirono;           Lieberman; Lincoln;
                                                                                                                                           Johnson, Eddie Bernice;     Lugar; Menendez;
                                                                                                                                           Kildee; Langevin;           Rockefeller; Sanders;
                                                                                                                                           Lofgren, Zoe; McCarthy      Schumer; Shaheen;
                                                                                                                                           (CA); McGovern; Miller      Stabenow; Tom Udall;
                                                                                                                                           (NC); Oberstar; Pomeroy;    Warner; Webb; Whitehouse;
                                                                                                                                           Rahall; Roskam; Ross;       Wyden; Kirk
                                                                                                                                           Shea-Porter; Van Hollen;
                                                                                                                                           Waxman; Yarmuth; Young
                                                                                                                                           (AK)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         School Improvement             New Leaders for New Schools for activities authorized        $5,000,000  Miller, George
 National Projects                                                under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         School Improvement             University of Hawaii for the Henry K. Giugni Memorial          $500,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 National Projects                                                Archives under the Education for Native Hawaiians
                                                                  program, as authorized under the Higher Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         School Improvement             University of Hawaii School of Law for a Center of           $1,500,000                              Inouye; Akaka
 National Projects                                                Excellence in Native Hawaiian law under the Education
                                                                  for Native Hawaiians program
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Special Education              Recording for the Blind and Dyslexic, Inc. for              $13,250,000  Holt; Moran (VA)            Harkin; Specter
 National Projects                                                development, production, and circulation of accessible
                                                                  educational materials as authorized under section
                                                                  674(c)(1)(D) of the Individuals with Disabilities
                                                                  Education Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Education--         Special Education              Washington Educational Television Association for a            $737,000                              Cochran
 National Projects                                                national program to provide information on diagnosis,
                                                                  intervention, and teaching strategies for children
                                                                  with disabilities authorized under Public Law 105-78
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HRSA                           Delta Health Alliance, Inc. to improve the delivery of      $35,000,000                              Cochran
 Services--National Projects                                      public health services in the Mississippi Delta region
                                                                  under title III of the Public Health Service Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Health & Human      HRSA                           Denali Commission to support health projects and            $10,000,000  Young (AK)                  Murkowski; Begich
 Services--National Projects                                      economic development activities for the arctic region
                                                                  under the Denali Commission Act of 1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor--National     Departmental Management        International Program for the Elimination of Child          $40,000,000                              Harkin
 Projects                                                         Labor for the U.S. contribution to a multinational
                                                                  effort to combat child labor, consistent with
                                                                  Executive Order 12216 and the William Wilberforce
                                                                  Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of
                                                                  2008
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Department of Labor--National     MSHA                           United Mine Workers of America for mine rescue team          $1,450,000                              Byrd
 Projects                                                         training activities authorized under the Mine Safety
                                                                  and Health Act
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

                        (In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...    $810,835,790
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................     747,412,263
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................     749,359,793
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................     749,004,793
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................     749,555,496
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................     -61,280,294
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................      +2,143,233
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................        +195,703
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................        +550,703

  DIVISION E--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

      Matters Addressed by Only One Committee.--The language 
and allocations set forth in House Report 111-188 and Senate 
Report 111-40 should be complied with unless specifically 
addressed to the contrary in the conference agreement and this 
explanatory statement. Report language included by the House, 
which is not changed by the report of the Senate or this 
explanatory statement, and Senate report language, which is not 
changed by this explanatory statement is approved by the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. This 
explanatory statement, while repeating some report language for 
emphasis, does not intend to negate the language referred to 
above unless expressly provided herein. In cases where the 
House or the Senate have directed the submission of a report, 
such report is to be submitted to both Houses of Congress.

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       Items of General Interest

      Reprogramming Guidelines.--The following reprogramming 
guidelines apply for all military construction and family 
housing projects. A project or account (including the sub-
elements of an account) which has been specifically reduced by 
the Congress in acting on the budget request is considered to 
be a congressional interest item and as such, prior approval is 
required. Accordingly, no reprogrammings to an item 
specifically reduced below the threshold by the Congress are 
permitted, except that the Department of Defense may seek 
reprogrammings for appropriated increments.
      The reprogramming criteria that apply to military 
construction projects (25 percent of the funded amount or 
$2,000,000, whichever is less) continue to apply to new housing 
construction projects and to improvements over $2,000,000. To 
provide the services the flexibility to proceed with 
construction contracts without disruption or delay, the costs 
associated with environmental hazard remediation such as 
asbestos removal, radon abatement, lead-based paint removal or 
abatement, and any other legislated environmental hazard 
remediation may be excluded, provided that such remediation 
requirements could not be reasonably anticipated at the time of 
the budget submission. This exclusion applies to projects 
authorized in this budget year, as well as projects authorized 
in prior years for which construction has not been completed. 
Planning and design costs associated with military construction 
and family housing projects may also be excluded from these 
guidelines. In instances where prior approval to a 
reprogramming request for a project or account has been 
received from the Committees on Appropriations, the adjusted 
amount approved becomes the new base for any future increase or 
decrease via below-threshold reprogrammings (provided that the 
project or account is not a congressional interest item as 
defined above).
      In addition to these guidelines, the services are 
directed to adhere to the guidance for military construction 
reprogrammings and notifications, including the pertinent 
statutory authorities contained in DOD Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R and relevant updates and policy memoranda. 
The conferees encourage the Office of the Director of National 
Intelligence to use a format similar to that used by the Office 
of the Secretary of Defense to submit reprogramming requests.
      Incrementally Funded Projects.--The conferees note that 
the Administration requested several large military 
construction projects that can be incrementally funded, but 
were instead submitted as large single-year requests, in 
accordance with a directive from the Office of Management and 
Budget to the Department of Defense to severely restrict the 
use of incremental funding for military construction. The 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress have 
previously notified the Administration that they reserve the 
prerogative to provide incremental funding where appropriate, 
in accordance with authorizing legislation. The conferees 
continue to believe that military construction projects should 
be fully funded or separated into stand-alone phases when 
practical. In some cases, however, incremental funding makes 
fiscal and programmatic sense. The conference agreement 
therefore incrementally funds the following projects consistent 
with the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2010: Aviation Task Force Complex Phase 1, Fort Wainwright, 
Alaska; North Region Tertiary Treatment Plant Phase 1, Camp 
Pendleton, California; Hospital Replacement, Fort Bliss, Texas; 
Data Center, Camp Williams, Utah; Ship Repair Pier Replacement, 
Portsmouth, Virginia; Apra Harbor Wharves Improvements Phase 1, 
Guam; and Hospital Replacement, Guam.
      Bid Savings.--The conferees are aware of significant bid 
savings realized by the military departments and Defense 
agencies in the fiscal year 2009 military construction program 
due to a competitive bidding climate and lower material costs 
and have adjusted appropriated amounts for certain accounts to 
reflect these savings as well as projected savings in the 
fiscal year 2010 program. Individual project notifications 
provided to the congressional defense committees pursuant to 
section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, show that the 
Department of Defense has realized in total well over half a 
billion dollars in fiscal year 2009 military construction bid 
savings, and is projecting similar substantial savings for 
fiscal year 2010. However, the services and agencies are 
required to notify Congress of only those cost variations equal 
to or exceeding 25 percent of the appropriated amount for 
military construction projects. In order to enhance 
congressional oversight and provide greater visibility of 
cumulative bid savings in the fiscal year 2010 program, the 
conferees direct the Secretary of Defense to submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
quarterly consolidated report from each of the military 
departments and Defense agencies identifying, by project name, 
location, and dollar amount, bid savings in excess of 10 
percent of the amount appropriated for military construction 
projects for which funds are obligated in fiscal year 2010. The 
report shall include projects funded through the regular 
military construction accounts, family housing construction 
accounts, the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005, 
and the overseas contingency operations military construction 
accounts. The initial report shall be submitted no later than 
April 30, 2010, and thereafter no later than 30 days after the 
end of each quarter.
      Report on Design Obligations.--The conferees direct that 
the Secretary of Defense, and the secretaries of the Army, 
Navy, and Air Force, each submit separate semi-annual reports 
on the obligation and expenditure of planning and design funds. 
The Secretary of Defense's report shall cover Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide, and the reports by the Army, Navy, 
and Air Force shall cover active, guard, and reserve military 
construction accounts. Each report shall provide data on the 
total amount available from each and all fiscal years for 
planning and design activities, as well as the amounts 
currently obligated and expended. The reports shall be 
submitted no later than 30 days following the end of the second 
and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2010.
      Nuclear Weapons Security.--The conferees direct the 
Secretary of Defense to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress analyzing alternative 
designs for any major construction projects requested in fiscal 
year 2011 or included in the accompanying future years defense 
plan for the purpose of securing strategic nuclear weapons. The 
report of alternatives should include the full life cycle cost 
and benefits including security enhancements required for each 
major construction project. The report shall be submitted along 
with the annual budget request.
      Department of Defense Cooperation with the Government 
Accountability Office.--The conferees are concerned by 
indications that the Department of Defense is not cooperating 
fully with Government Accountability Office (GAO) 
investigations of matters that are of vital interest to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. GAO 
activities are crucial to the Committees' ongoing oversight of 
Administration military construction programs and policies. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of Defense to ensure that the 
Department fully complies in a timely manner with valid GAO 
requests for information. The conferees further direct the GAO 
to provide the Committees with an update on Department 
cooperation with its investigations no later than 30 days 
following the enactment of this Act.
      Delivery of Notifications.--The conferees direct the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense, the services, and the 
Defense agencies to submit a quarterly report listing all 
notifications that have been submitted to the Committees during 
the preceding three-month period.

                      Military Construction, Army

      The conference agreement appropriates $3,719,419,000 for 
Military Construction, Army, instead of $3,630,422,000 as 
proposed by the House and $3,477,673,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within this amount, the agreement provides $200,519,000 
for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
and host nation support, instead of $187,872,000 as proposed by 
the House and $191,573,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $350,000,000 to address 
the large unfunded backlog of Army trainee troop housing 
construction, instead of $450,000,000 as proposed by the House. 
The Senate bill contained no similar provision.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for the design of the following 
projects:
      Alabama--Fort Rucker, Army AVIM Hangar, $1,170,000.
      Alabama--Fort Rucker, Water Survival Training Facility, 
$401,000.
      Kentucky--Fort Campbell, Physical Fitness Complex, 
$900,000.
      Maryland--Aberdeen Proving Ground, Information Processing 
Node Phase 2, $956,000.
      Missouri--Fort Leonard Wood, Brigade Headquarters, 
$584,000.
      North Carolina--Fort Bragg, Field Support Brigade 
Headquarters, $720,000.
      Texas--Fort Bliss, Access Control Points, $6,500,000.
      Utah--Dugway Proving Ground, Life Science Test Facility 
Addition, $2,890,000.
      Of the funds provided for minor construction in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amount be made available for construction of the following 
project:
      Colorado--Fort Carson, Convoy Skills Trainer (IED), 
$1,950,000.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

      The conference agreement appropriates $3,769,003,000 for 
Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps, instead of 
$3,757,330,000 as proposed by the House and $3,548,771,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within this amount, the agreement 
provides $179,652,000 for study, planning, design, architect 
and engineer services, instead of $182,569,000 as proposed by 
the House and $176,896,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for the design of the following 
projects:
      Florida--Panama City NSA, Joint Diver A-School Dormitory, 
$520,000.
      Hawaii--Pearl Harbor NSY, Drydock 2 Starboard Waterfront 
Facility, $850,000.
      Indiana--Crane NSWC, Strategic Weapons System Engineering 
Facility, $510,000.
      Maine--Portsmouth NSY, Consolidation of Structural Shops, 
$2,000,000.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

                    (INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement appropriates $1,450,426,000 for 
Military Construction, Air Force, instead of $1,359,171,000 as 
proposed by the House and $1,251,039,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within this amount, the agreement provides $103,562,000 
for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
instead of $93,407,000 as proposed by the House and 
$106,918,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement rescinds $37,500,000 from funds 
previously appropriated for the establishment of unmanned 
aerial system (UAS) field training facilities at an unspecified 
location. After those funds were appropriated, the Air Force 
selected Holloman AFB, New Mexico, as the site for the UAS 
field training unit, which required significant revisions to 
the scope of these facilities. The conference agreement 
provides $37,500,000 for the revised UAS field training unit 
complex at Holloman, consistent with the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for the design of the following 
projects:
      Florida--MacDill AFB, Mission Support Facility, $384,000.
      Hawaii--Kona International Airport, C-17 Kona Short 
Auxiliary Airfield, $910,000.
      Idaho--Mountain Home AFB, Civil Engineer Maintenance 
Complex, $690,000.
      Maryland--Andrews AFB, Physical Fitness Center, $930,000.
      New Mexico--Cannon AFB, Dormitory (96 Room), $450,000.
      North Dakota--Minot AFB, Control Tower/Base Operations 
Facility, $1,710,000.
      Texas--Dyess AFB, Mission Operations Center, $390,000.
      Texas--Lackland AFB, Consolidated Security Forces 
Operations Center, $342,000.
      Texas--Laughlin AFB, Student Officer Quarters Phase 2, 
$713,000.
      Of the funds provided for minor construction in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amount be made available for construction of the following 
project:
      Colorado--Peterson AFB, Widen Paine Street, $2,000,000.
      Air Base Development, Palanquero, Colombia.--The 
conference agreement provides $43,000,000 for the construction 
of air base facilities at the Colombian Air Force Base, 
Palanquero, Colombia. The conferees understand that this 
funding is not intended to establish a U.S. base or a permanent 
U.S. military presence in Colombia, and that any activities 
conducted by U.S. forces from this or any other location in 
Colombia would be based on full respect for the principles of 
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and non-interventionism, in 
accordance with the Defense Cooperation Agreement of October 
30, 2009. The conference agreement reduces the amount requested 
for this project by $3,000,000 to meet this intent.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

              (INCLUDING RESCISSION AND TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement appropriates $3,093,679,000 for 
Military Construction, Defense-Wide, instead of $2,743,526,000 
as proposed by the House and $3,137,614,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within this amount, the agreement provides $131,942,000 
for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
instead of $121,442,000 as proposed by the House and 
$142,942,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement rescinds $151,160,000 from 
previously appropriated funds due to the Administration's 
cancellation of a proposed ballistic missile defense system in 
Europe. The conference agreement also includes $68,500,000 for 
an Aegis Ashore Test Facility, as proposed by the Senate, to 
support the Administration's new plan for ballistic missile 
defense. The House bill contained no similar provision.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amount be made available for the design of the following 
project:
      Washington--Fort Lewis, Women's Health Center Facility, 
$2,000,000.
      Landstuhl Regional Medical Center.--The conferees 
understand that the Department of Defense is reviewing options 
for a new site to accommodate a facility replacing the current 
Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, including the 
current site, Ramstein Air Base, the Weilerbach area adjacent 
to Ramstein, and other locations. The conferees direct the 
Department to provide the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress with a cost-benefit analysis of the various 
site options, and a justification for the preferred site. This 
assessment should include ancillary facilities that need to be 
collocated with the new medical facility, as well as any 
additional facilities or functions that would benefit U.S. 
forces in Europe by being collocated on the same site. The 
conferees direct the Department to submit this assessment with 
the fiscal year 2011 budget request.
      Energy Conservation Investment Program (ECIP).--The 
conference agreement provides $174,209,000 for ECIP, including 
$10,500,000 for planning and design, instead of $90,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $225,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conferees strongly support the efforts of the 
Department of Defense to promote energy conservation, green 
building initiatives, energy security, and investment in 
renewable energy resources, and commend the leadership of the 
Department and the services for making energy efficiency a key 
component of construction on military installations. The 
conferees urge the Department to use the additional funds to 
invest in innovative renewable energy projects as well as 
projects that enhance energy security at military 
installations. The conferees direct the Secretary of Defense to 
provide an expenditure plan for the additional funds to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress no 
later than 45 days following the enactment of this Act.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

      The conference agreement appropriates $582,056,000 for 
Military Construction, Army National Guard, instead of 
$529,129,000 as proposed by the House and $497,210,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within this amount, the agreement 
provides $47,429,000 for study, planning, design, architect and 
engineer services as proposed by the House, with modification. 
The Senate bill contained no similar provision. The agreement 
also provides $30,000,000 for critical unfunded requirements as 
proposed by the House. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for the design of the following 
projects:
      Arkansas--West Memphis, Readiness Center, $1,240,000.
      Hawaii--Kapolei, Readiness Center (Joint Forces 
Headquarters), $5,446,000.
      Iowa--Johnston, Armed Forces Reserve Center/Field 
Maintenance Shop, $180,000.
      Kentucky--Frankfort, Joint Forces Headquarters, $334,000.
      Massachusetts--Hanscom AFB, Joint Force Headquarters, 
$2,663,000.
      Michigan--Camp Grayling, Barracks Replacement Phase 2, 
$440,000.
      Nevada--Las Vegas, Civil Support Team Ready Building, 
$727,000.
      Oregon--Camp Rilea, Water Supply System, $368,000.
      Oregon--Clackamas County, Storm Water and Sewer 
Infrastructure Improvements, Camp Withycombe, $1,226,000.
      Oregon--Washington County, Readiness Center, $386,000.
      Pennsylvania--Luzerne, Readiness Center, $924,000.
      Vermont--Morrisville, Field Vehicle Maintenance Shop, 
$812,000.
      West Virginia--Logan/Mingo County, Readiness Center, 
$501,000.
      West Virginia--Parkersburg, Readiness Center, $2,234,000.
      West Virginia--Parkersburg, Field Maintenance Shop, 
$967,000.
      Of the funds provided for minor construction in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for construction of the following 
projects:
      Iowa--Camp Dodge, Motor Vehicle Storage Buildings 
(Freedom Center Armory), $1,963,000.
      Iowa--Davenport, Army Aviation Support Facility Addition/
Alteration, $2,000,000.
      Iowa--Fairfield, Field Maintenance Shop Addition/
Alteration, $2,000,000.
      Iowa--Iowa Falls, Addition/Alteration Readiness Center, 
$2,000,000.
      Kentucky--London, Phase IV Aviation Operations Facility, 
$1,805,000.
      Montana--Fort Harrison, Addition/Alteration Troop Medical 
Facility, $1,750,000.
      Nevada--Floyd Edsall Training Center, Addition/Alteration 
Clark County Armory, $2,000,000.
      North Dakota--Bismarck, Raymond J. Bohn Readiness Center 
Addition, $2,000,000.
      Ohio--Beightler Armory, Joint Forces Headquarters 
Addition, $2,000,000.
      Ohio--Ravenna Training Site, Shoot House, $2,000,000.
      Puerto Rico--Camp Santiago, Urban Assault Course, 
$1,669,000.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

      The conference agreement appropriates $371,226,000 for 
Military Construction, Air National Guard, instead of 
$226,126,000 as proposed by the House and $297,661,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within this amount, the agreement 
provides $20,021,000 for study, planning, design, architect and 
engineer services as proposed by the House, with modification. 
The Senate bill contained no similar provision. The agreement 
also provides $30,000,000 for critical unfunded requirements as 
proposed by the House. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.
      Of the funds provided for planning and design in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amount be made available for the design of the following 
project:
      Kentucky--Standiford Field, Contingency Response Group 
Facility, $600,000.
      Of the funds provided for minor construction in this 
account, the conferees direct that not less than the specified 
amounts be made available for construction of the following 
projects:
      Massachusetts--Hanscom AFB, Joint Forces Operations 
Center Air National Guard Share, $1,500,000.
      New Jersey--Atlantic City IAP, Munitions Administration 
Facility, $1,700,000.
      Ohio--Toledo Express Airport, Multi-Use Instructional 
Facility, $2,000,000.
      Ohio--Zanesville ANGS, New Supply Warehouse, $1,000,000.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

      The conference agreement appropriates $431,566,000 for 
Military Construction, Army Reserve, instead of $432,516,000 as 
proposed by the House and $379,012,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Within this amount, the agreement provides $22,716,000 
for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services as 
proposed by the House, with modification. The Senate bill 
contained no similar provision. The agreement also provides 
$30,000,000 for critical unfunded requirements as proposed by 
the House. The Senate bill contained no similar provision.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

      The conference agreement appropriates $125,874,000 for 
Military Construction, Navy Reserve as proposed by the House, 
instead of $64,124,000 as proposed by the Senate. Within this 
amount, the agreement provides $2,951,000 for study, planning, 
design, architect and engineer services as proposed by the 
House, with modification. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision. The agreement also provides $20,000,000 for critical 
unfunded requirements of the Navy Reserve and $35,000,000 for 
critical unfunded requirements of the Marine Forces Reserve as 
proposed by the House. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

      The conference agreement appropriates $112,269,000 for 
Military Construction, Air Force Reserve, instead of 
$103,169,000 as proposed by the House and $47,376,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Within this amount, the agreement 
provides $3,869,000 for study, planning, design, architect and 
engineer services as proposed by the House, with modification. 
The Senate bill contained no similar provision. The agreement 
also provides $55,000,000 for critical unfunded requirements as 
proposed by the House. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

      The conference agreement appropriates $197,414,000 for 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
Program, instead of $234,914,000 as proposed by the House and 
$276,314,000 as proposed by the Senate. Funding for the U.S. 
share of the planning, design, and construction of a new NATO 
headquarters is included under Military Construction, Defense-
Wide as proposed by the House. The Senate bill contained no 
similar provision.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

      The conference agreement appropriates $273,236,000 for 
Family Housing Construction, Army as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

      The conference agreement appropriates $523,418,000 for 
Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

      The conference agreement appropriates $146,569,000 for 
Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

      The conference agreement appropriates $368,540,000 for 
Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps 
as proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

      The conference agreement appropriates $66,101,000 for 
Family Housing Construction, Air Force as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

      The conference agreement appropriates $502,936,000 for 
Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate.

               Family Housing Construction, Defense-Wide

      The conference agreement appropriates $2,859,000 for 
Family Housing Construction, Defense-Wide as proposed by both 
the House and the Senate.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

      The conference agreement appropriates $49,214,000 for 
Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

      The conference agreement appropriates $2,600,000 for the 
Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                       Homeowners Assistance Fund

      The conference agreement appropriates $323,225,000 for 
the Homeowners Assistance Fund as proposed by the Senate, 
instead of $23,225,000 as proposed by the House. This amount is 
$300,000,000 above the President's budget request to fund the 
expansion of the Homeowners Assistance Program (HAP) to provide 
mortgage relief to eligible personnel who sustain losses on the 
sale of their home due to relocation requirements during the 
current mortgage crisis, as well as wounded warriors and the 
spouses of fallen warriors. The program was permanently 
expanded in 2009 to cover wounded warriors who must relocate 
for medical reasons and spouses of fallen warriors, and was 
expanded through 2012 for all military and qualified civilian 
personnel who receive orders to move during the mortgage crisis 
and must sell their home at a loss. According to the Department 
of Defense, the funds provided in this Act, in addition to the 
$555,000,000 provided for the initial expansion of the program 
in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are 
sufficient to meet all currently projected funding requirements 
for the HAP expansion.

          Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide

      The conference agreement appropriates $151,541,000 for 
Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide as 
proposed by the Senate, instead of $146,541,000 as proposed by 
the House.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990

      The conference agreement appropriates $496,768,000 for 
the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990, instead of 
$536,768,000 as proposed by the House and $421,768,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The agreement includes an increase of 
$100,000,000 above the budget request, of which $40,000,000 is 
provided for the Army and $60,000,000 is provided for the Navy.
      The conferees direct the Army and Navy to submit an 
expenditure plan to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress for the additional funds provided no later 
than 30 days following the enactment of this Act.

            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005

      The conference agreement appropriates $7,455,498,000 for 
the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005, instead of 
$7,479,498,000 as proposed by both the House and Senate. The 
amount approved by the conferees fully funds the authorized 
level for fiscal year 2010. The reduction from the request is 
due to the realignment of funding for the hospital replacement 
at Fort Bliss, Texas to the Military Construction, Defense-Wide 
account. The conferees direct the Department to continue 
notifying the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of any above-threshold cost or scope variation on 
projects, and cancellation of projects, or any transfer of 
funds among accounts and construction projects associated with 
the BRAC 2005 program.
      BRAC Transportation Improvements Study.--The conferees 
direct the Secretary of Defense to provide $450,000 from 
available funds within the 2005 Base Closure Account to enter 
into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) 
to conduct a study on the funding of transportation 
improvements to accommodate installation growth associated with 
the BRAC 2005 program. The study shall:
      (1) examine case studies of congestion caused on 
metropolitan road and transit facilities when BRAC requirements 
cause shifts in personnel to occur faster than facilities can 
be improved through the usual State and local processes;
      (2) review the criteria used by the Defense Access Roads 
(DAR) program for determining the eligibility of transportation 
projects and the appropriate Department of Defense share of 
public highway and transit improvements in BRAC cases;
      (3) assess the adequacy of current Federal surface 
transportation and Department of Defense programs that fund 
highway and transit improvements in BRAC cases to mitigate 
transportation impacts in urban areas with preexisting traffic 
congestion and saturated roads;
      (4) identify promising approaches for funding road and 
transit improvements and streamlining transportation project 
approvals in BRAC cases; and
      (5) provide recommendations for modifications of current 
policy for the DAR and Office of Economic Adjustment programs, 
including funding strategies, road capacity assessments, 
eligibility criteria, and other government policies and 
programs the National Academy of Sciences may identify, to 
mitigate the impact of BRAC-related installation growth on 
preexisting urban congestion.
      The NAS is directed to provide an interim report of its 
findings to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress no later than May 14, 
2010, with a final report to be provided no later than January 
31, 2011.

                       Administrative Provisions

      The conference agreement includes section 101 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the use of funds 
under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract.
      The conference agreement includes section 102 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing the use of 
construction funds in this title for hire of passenger motor 
vehicles.
      The conference agreement includes section 103 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing the use of 
construction funds in this title for advances to the Federal 
Highway Administration for the construction of access roads.
      The conference agreement includes section 104 as proposed 
by the Senate prohibiting construction of new bases in the 
United States without a specific appropriation. The House bill 
contained similar language prohibiting the use of funds to 
initiate a new installation without a specific appropriation.
      The conference agreement includes section 105 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the use of funds for 
the purchase of land or land easements that exceed 100 percent 
of the value.
      The conference agreement includes section 106 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the use of funds, 
except funds appropriated in this title for that purpose, for 
family housing.
      The conference agreement includes section 107 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the use of minor 
construction funds to transfer or relocate activities.
      The conference agreement includes section 108 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the procurement of 
steel unless American producers, fabricators, and manufacturers 
have been allowed to compete.
      The conference agreement includes section 109 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the use of 
construction or family housing funds to pay real property taxes 
in any foreign nation.
      The conference agreement includes section 110 as proposed 
by the Senate prohibiting the use of funds to initiate a new 
installation overseas without prior notification. The House 
bill contained similar language prohibiting the use of funds to 
initiate a new installation without a specific appropriation.
      The conference agreement includes section 111 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate establishing a preference for 
American architectural and engineering services for overseas 
projects.
      The conference agreement includes section 112 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate establishing a preference for 
American contractors in certain locations.
      The conference agreement includes section 113 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate requiring congressional 
notification of military exercises when construction costs 
exceed $100,000.
      The conference agreement includes section 114 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting obligations in the 
last two months of the fiscal year.
      The conference agreement includes section 115 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing funds appropriated in 
prior years for new projects authorized during the current 
session of Congress.
      The conference agreement includes section 116 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing the use of lapsed or 
expired funds to pay the cost of supervision for any project 
being completed with lapsed funds.
      The conference agreement includes section 117 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing military construction 
funds to be available for five years.
      The conference agreement includes section 118 as proposed 
by the Senate requiring an annual report on actions taken to 
encourage other nations to assume a greater share of the common 
defense burden, to include a classified report option, if 
necessary. The House bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes section 119 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing the transfer of 
proceeds between BRAC accounts.
      The conference agreement includes section 120 as proposed 
by the House allowing the transfer of funds from Family Housing 
Construction accounts to the Family Housing Improvement Fund. 
The Senate bill contained a similar provision, but did not 
allow for notification by electronic medium.
      The conference agreement includes section 121 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate requiring congressional 
notification prior to issuing a solicitation for a contract 
with the private sector for family housing.
      The conference agreement includes section 122 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing transfers to the 
Homeowners Assistance Fund.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 123 
limiting the source of operation and maintenance funds for flag 
and general officer quarters and allowing for notification by 
electronic medium. Both the House bill and the Senate bill 
included a similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes section 124 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate extending the availability of 
funds in the Ford Island Improvement Account.
      The conference agreement includes section 125 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate placing limitations on the 
expenditure of funds for projects impacted by BRAC 2005.
      The conference agreement includes section 126 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing the transfer of 
expired funds to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense account.
      The conference agreement includes section 127 as proposed 
by the House prohibiting the use of funds for any action 
related to the expansion of Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site, 
Colorado. The Senate bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes section 128 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the reprogramming 
of construction funds among projects and activities subject to 
certain criteria.
      The conference agreement includes section 129 reducing 
the following accounts in the bill by the specified amounts due 
to adjusted inflation and bid savings projections: Military 
Construction, Army, $230,000,000; Military Construction, Navy 
and Marine Corps, $235,000,000; and Military Construction, Air 
Force, $64,091,000.
      The conference agreement includes section 130 rescinding 
unobligated balances primarily due to bid savings from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts: Military 
Construction, Army, $33,000,000; Military Construction, Navy 
and Marine Corps, $51,468,000; Military Construction, Defense-
Wide, $93,268,000; Military Construction, Army National Guard, 
$33,000,000; and Military Construction, Air National Guard, 
$7,000,000.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 128) related to alternative 
designs for strategic nuclear weapons facilities. The House 
bill contained no similar provision. This issue is instead 
addressed under Items of General Interest.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 129) related to a report on cost 
and scope variations on military construction projects. The 
House bill contained no similar provision. This issue is 
instead addressed under Items of General Interest.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 130) related to a study of 
transportation improvements to accommodate installation growth 
associated with the BRAC 2005 program. The House bill contained 
no similar provision. This issue is instead addressed under 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 131) related to the construction 
of an Unmanned Aerial System Field Training Complex at Holloman 
AFB, New Mexico. The House bill contained no similar provision. 
This issue is instead addressed under Military Construction, 
Air Force.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 132) related to the construction 
of an Aegis Ashore Test Facility at the Pacific Missile Range 
Facility, Hawaii. The House bill proposed no similar provision. 
This issue is instead addressed under Military Construction, 
Defense-Wide.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                       Items of General Interest

      Outreach at Colleges and Universities.--The conferees are 
aware that with increasing numbers of veterans utilizing the 
new GI Bill benefits, veteran enrollment at institutions of 
higher education is growing. The conferees strongly encourage 
the Department to utilize all means at its disposal to ensure 
that effective outreach and services are offered at 
institutions of higher education for student veterans, 
particularly those combat veterans with neurological and 
psychological illnesses or injuries.
      Guide and Service Dog Program.--The conferees are 
concerned with the lack of progress the Department has made to 
fully implement section 1714 of title 38 regarding the 
provision of guide dogs and service dogs to qualified veterans 
seeking such services. Additionally, the conferees direct the 
Department to immediately begin the process of assisting those 
veterans with mental illnesses, to include Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder (PTSD), who would benefit from having a service 
dog and provide the authorization to do so in the bill. While 
the conferees understand that the Department is currently 
reviewing its policies and regulations in order to improve 
access to guide and service dogs, and advance its partnerships 
with accredited nonprofit organizations with expertise in the 
training of service dogs and education in the use of service 
dogs, the conferees want this process to accelerate. Therefore, 
the conference agreement provides an additional $2,000,000 in 
Medical Services for the Guide and Service Dog Program and 
provides additional funds in Medical and Prosthetic Research 
for any necessary studies. Further, the conference agreement 
provides additional funds to the Office of Inspector General 
and directs the Office of Inspector General to review the Guide 
and Service Dog Program to include its current and pending 
policies and regulations and wait list and outreach procedures 
and report to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress on its recommendations to improve this program by 
July 8, 2010. Additionally, the Department is encouraged to 
expand its partnership with accredited nonprofit service dog 
organizations where veterans with PTSD help to train service 
dogs.

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       COMPENSATION AND PENSIONS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement appropriates $47,396,106,000 for 
Compensation and Pensions. Of the amount provided, not more 
than $29,283,000 is to be transferred to General Operating 
Expenses, Medical Support and Compliance, and Information 
Technology Systems for reimbursement of necessary expenses in 
implementing provisions of title 38.

                         READJUSTMENT BENEFITS

      The conference agreement appropriates $9,232,369,000 for 
Readjustment Benefits.

                   VETERANS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES

      The conference agreement appropriates $49,288,000 for 
Veterans Insurance and Indemnities as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

                 VETERANS HOUSING BENEFIT PROGRAM FUND

      The conference agreement appropriates such sums as may be 
necessary for costs associated with direct and guaranteed loans 
for the Veterans Housing Benefit Program Fund as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate. The agreement limits obligations 
for direct loans to not more than $500,000 and provides that 
$165,082,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.

            VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement appropriates $29,000 for the 
cost of direct loans from the Vocational Rehabilitation Loans 
Program Account as proposed by both the House and the Senate, 
plus $328,000 to be transferred to and merged with General 
Operating Expenses. The agreement provides for a direct loan 
limitation of $2,298,000 as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.

          NATIVE AMERICAN VETERAN HOUSING LOAN PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement appropriates $664,000 for 
administrative expenses of the Native American Veteran Housing 
Loan Program Account as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.

  GUARANTEED TRANSITIONAL HOUSING LOANS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS PROGRAM 
                                ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides up to $750,000 of the 
funds available in General Operating Expenses and Medical 
Support and Compliance to carry out the Guaranteed Transitional 
Housing Loans for Homeless Veterans Program Account as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate.

                     Veterans Health Administration

      Advance Appropriations.--The conference agreement 
includes an advance appropriation for the Medical Services, 
Medical Support and Compliance, and Medical Facilities 
accounts. The goal of this advance appropriation is to provide 
the Veterans Health Administration with reliable and timely 
funding for their current services so the delivery of medical 
care is not disrupted. However, the provision of an advance 
appropriation should be seen as only the first step in this 
process. The conferees direct the Department to include in 
future budget submissions the budget plan for the advance 
appropriation provided in the previous year's appropriation to 
include the amount of funds that will be allocated in 
accordance with the Veterans Equitable Resource Allocation, and 
expect funding provided by advance appropriation to be made 
available to the Veterans Integrated Service Networks on 
October 1, 2010. The conferees further direct the Department to 
include an advance appropriation request for current services 
for the Medical Services, Medical Support and Compliance, and 
Medical Facilities accounts in future budget submissions.
      Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy.--The conferees direct the 
Department to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the Veterans 
Health Administration's use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy by 
March 31, 2010. This report should include, but not be limited 
to, the number of veterans and types of conditions being 
treated using this therapy, outcome measurements, and number of 
facilities that provide this therapy.
      State Home Care.--The conferees urge the Department to 
undertake a feasibility study to identify any potential impacts 
of permitting State Home Care facilities to provide services to 
non-veterans who have had a child die while serving in the 
Armed Forces, as long as such services are not denied to a 
qualified veteran seeking those services. The Department is 
directed to report back to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress within 90 days after enactment of this 
Act on what steps, if any, have been taken to undertake the 
feasibility study and any findings, should the study be 
completed.
      Hiring Incentives for Rural and Highly Rural Areas.--The 
conferees are aware that the Department currently provides 
recruitment and relocation incentive pay to attract high 
quality medical personnel. However, the conferees are concerned 
that the Department has not been aggressive enough in utilizing 
this program in underserved rural areas. Therefore, the 
Department is directed to provide an additional $1,500,000 for 
incentive pay from Medical Services and $1,500,000 for 
incentive pay from Medical Support and Compliance for 
recruitment and permanent relocation of high quality healthcare 
providers and administrators, respectively, to areas designated 
by the Veterans Health Administration as rural or highly rural 
areas. Further, the Department is directed to provide a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
on the number of new employees receiving incentives with this 
funding and the structure of the program by March 31, 2010.

                            MEDICAL SERVICES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement appropriates $34,707,500,000 for 
Medical Services, instead of $34,705,500,000 as proposed by the 
House and $34,705,250,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of the 
amount provided, $1,015,000,000 is available for obligation 
until September 30, 2011, as proposed by the House, instead of 
$1,600,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The agreement further 
appropriates an advance appropriation for fiscal year 2011 of 
$37,136,000,000 as proposed by the House, instead of 
$37,136,000,000 as proposed by the Senate in title V, to become 
available on October 1, 2010, and remain available until 
September 30, 2011.
      The conference agreement includes an additional 
$1,000,000 for the Education Debt Reduction Program to be used 
as a hiring incentive for mental health professionals, an 
additional $2,000,000 for the Guide and Service Dog Program, 
and directs an additional $4,000,000 for the Supportive 
Services For Low Income Veterans and Families, funding the full 
authorized level of $20,000,000, and directs an additional 
$6,000,000 for the Homeless Grant and Per Diem Program, funding 
the full authorized level of $150,000,000, and provides 
sufficient funding to allow for additional personnel for the 
HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program to address any 
increase in the number of vouchers offered and directs the 
Department to increase the number of case workers as necessary 
to accommodate the increase in vouchers.

                     MEDICAL SUPPORT AND COMPLIANCE

      The conference agreement appropriates $4,930,000,000 for 
Medical Support and Compliance, instead of $4,896,500,000 as 
proposed by the House and $5,100,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Of the amount provided, $145,000,000 is available for 
obligation until September 30, 2011, as proposed by the House, 
instead of $250,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
agreement further appropriates an advance appropriation for 
fiscal year 2011 of $5,307,000,000 as proposed by the House, 
instead of $5,307,000,000 as proposed by the Senate in title V, 
to become available on October 1, 2010, and remain available 
until September 30, 2011.

                           MEDICAL FACILITIES

      The conference agreement appropriates $4,859,000,000 for 
Medical Facilities, instead of $4,893,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and $4,849,883,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of the 
amount provided, $145,000,000 is available until September 30, 
2011, as proposed by the House, instead of $250,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The agreement further appropriates an 
advance appropriation for fiscal year 2011 of $5,740,000,000 as 
proposed by the House, instead of $5,740,000,000 as proposed by 
the Senate in title V, to become available on October 1, 2010, 
and remain available until September 30, 2011.
      In addition, the conference agreement specifies that 
$130,000,000 for non-recurring maintenance shall be allocated 
in a manner not subject to the Veterans Equitable Resource 
Allocation model, instead of $200,000,000 as proposed by the 
House and $100,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conference agreement includes an additional $5,000,000 to hire 
extra contracting staff.
      Community Based Outpatient Clinics.--The conference 
agreement includes an additional $30,000,000 for the Department 
to open new community based outpatient clinics (CBOC) in rural 
areas. The conferees understand that the Department funds new 
outpatient clinics through the Medical Services account as well 
as the Medical Facilities account and reminds the Department 
that they may reprogram funds between these accounts for this 
initiative. The conferees direct the Department to provide to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
detailed expenditure plan for this funding no later than March 
1, 2010. Moreover, the plan should also include a list of all 
current clinics, regardless of size or contractual 
arrangements, which provide healthcare services in an 
outpatient setting.
      The conferees direct the Department to provide the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress with a 
report by February 16, 2010, on the feasibility of and/or plans 
for clinics in the following locations: Chattanooga, Tennessee; 
Idabel, Oklahoma; and Hinesville, Georgia.

                    MEDICAL AND PROSTHETIC RESEARCH

      The conference agreement appropriates $581,000,000 for 
Medical and Prosthetic Research, instead of $580,000,000 as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      Gulf War Illness Research.--The conferees are concerned 
that the Department has not placed sufficient emphasis on 
finding a cause or cure for Gulf War Veterans' illnesses, which 
affect thousands of veterans every day. Veterans from the First 
Gulf War and now the current conflict are experiencing illness 
that cannot be explained and rates of other more known 
illnesses at higher than the national average. The conferees 
have repeatedly encouraged the Department to do more research 
in this area and have consistently provided the funds to do so. 
However, the Department has not shown a consistent level of 
commitment for this vital research. In order to better track 
the expenditures for this research, the Department is directed 
to include Gulf War Veterans' illnesses as a designated 
research area in the fiscal year 2011 budget request.

                    National Cemetery Administration

      The conference agreement appropriates $250,000,000 for 
the National Cemetery Administration as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate. Of the amount provided, $24,200,000 is 
available until September 30, 2011, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes an additional 
$8,000,000 for the National Shrine Commitment Program and to 
correct gravesite deficiencies to include gravesite renovation 
projects to replace turf, repair sunken graves, and raise, 
realign and clean headstones.
      The conferees direct the Department to report by January 
29, 2010, on plans to expand the Chattanooga National Cemetery. 
Additionally, the conferees direct the Department to conduct a 
study to determine the need and feasibility of establishing a 
National Veterans Cemetery in the eastern portion of South 
Dakota. The conferees are also aware that there is no active 
National Veterans Cemetery in North Dakota, Montana, Idaho, 
Wyoming, or eastern Washington, which encompasses approximately 
500,000 square miles. Therefore, the conferees direct the 
Department to evaluate the feasibility of establishing a 
national veterans cemetery in this area, with consideration of 
the Yellowstone County Veterans Cemetery in Yellowstone County, 
Montana.

                      Departmental Administration

                       GENERAL OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement appropriates $2,086,707,000 for 
General Operating Expenses, instead of $2,086,200,000 as 
proposed by the House and $2,081,501,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The agreement provides not less than $1,689,207,000 as 
proposed by the Senate for the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, instead of $1,690,200,000 as proposed by the 
House. Of the amount provided, $111,000,000 is available for 
obligation until September 30, 2011, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.
      The conferees do not concur with the budget proposal to 
shift the cost of disability compensation exams from the 
mandatory Compensation and Pensions account to the 
discretionary General Operating Expenses account. The funding 
reduction in this account reflects this decision. Funding to 
continue the disability compensation exam pilot program is 
provided in the Compensation and Pensions account. The 
Department is directed to provide $10,500,000 for the 
Paralympic Program.

                     INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS

      The conference agreement appropriates $3,307,000,000 for 
Information Technology (IT) Systems as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement directs the Department to submit 
an expenditure plan to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress within 30 days of enactment as proposed by 
the House, instead of 60 days of enactment as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Reporting Requirements.--The conferees are aware that the 
Assistant Secretary for Information Technology conducted a 
comprehensive review of all information technology projects 
under development, resulting in some projects being halted 
completely and others paused to improve internal governance 
structures. The conferees understand how such a comprehensive 
review could alter the fiscal year 2010 request for projects 
and programs that are to receive the proposed funding. 
Therefore, the conferees have included bill language that 
restricts the obligation of $800,485,000 in IT development 
funds until the Secretary or the Chief Information Officer 
submits a certification letter to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress identifying which 
project/program is to receive funding in fiscal year 2010 and 
in what amount. These certifications may be submitted 
incrementally and are to serve as the base reprogramming 
amounts for development programs. In addition, the conferees 
direct the Department to submit the total life cycle 
development costs of projects and programs receiving 
development funds in fiscal year 2010, and to include these 
estimated costs in future budget submissions.
      The conferees further direct the Assistant Secretary for 
Information Technology to report quarterly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the status of the 
Program Management Accountability System.
      Telehealth.--The conferees direct the Department to 
conduct a study to identify improvements to the Department's 
infrastructure that are required in order to provide healthcare 
services to veterans using telehealth platforms.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement appropriates $109,000,000 for 
the Office of Inspector General as proposed by the Senate, 
instead of $106,000,000 as proposed by the House. Of the amount 
provided, $6,000,000 is available for obligation until 
September 30, 2011, as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes an additional 
$1,000,000 for increased oversight of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration regional offices and an additional $1,000,000 
for the reports directed by this statement.
      Combat Stress and Women Veterans.--The conferees direct 
the Office of Inspector General to conduct a study to assess 
the capacity of the Department to address combat stress in 
women veterans. At a minimum, the study should include: whether 
women veterans are properly evaluated by the Department for 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, military sexual trauma, and 
traumatic brain injury; whether the Department is properly 
adjudicating combat stress as a service-connected disability; 
whether the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) has 
developed and disseminated materials and policies to claims 
adjudicators that address claims involving military sexual 
trauma; and the feasibility of requiring training and testing 
of VBA claims adjudicators on military sexual trauma. The 
conferees direct the Office of Inspector General to provide the 
Secretary and the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress a plan for conducting this study, and any interim 
findings, within 180 days and a final report no later than one 
year after enactment of this Act.

                      CONSTRUCTION, MAJOR PROJECTS

      The conference agreement appropriates $1,194,000,000 for 
Construction, Major Projects as proposed by both the House and 
the Senate.
      The conferees concur with the direction in House Report 
111-188 directing the Department to report obligations for each 
project on a quarterly basis, with the first report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to be 
submitted no later than January 15, 2010, to reflect 
obligations incurred through December 31, 2009. The conferees 
also agree with direction in Senate Report 111-40 regarding a 
5-year capital plan for major construction projects, and direct 
that this plan include the total cost of each project and an 
obligation plan by fiscal year.
      The conference agreement funds the following items:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Conference
                                                             agreement
                                                              ($000)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Veterans Health Administration:
    Denver, CO--New Medical Facility....................         119,000
    Orlando, FL--New Medical Facility...................         371,300
    San Juan, PR--Seismic Corrections Building 1........          42,000
    St. Louis, MO--Medical Facility Improvements and              19,700
     Cemetery Expansion.................................
    Bay Pines, FL--Inpatient/Outpatient Improvements....          96,800
    Livermore, CA--Realignment and Closure (Design and            55,430
     Land Purchase).....................................
    Canandaigua, NY--Construction and Renovation                  36,580
     (Design)...........................................
    San Diego, CA--Seismic Deficiency (Design)..........          18,340
    Long Beach, CA--Seismic Corrections--Mental Health            24,200
     and Community Living Center (Design)...............
    St. Louis, MO--Replace Bed Tower/Clinic Expansion             43,340
     (Design)...........................................
    Brockton, MA--Long-term Care Spinal Cord Injury Unit          24,040
     (Design)...........................................
    Perry Point, MD--Replacement Community Living Center           9,000
     (Design)...........................................
    Advanced Planning Fund--Various Locations...........         123,560
    Facility Security Projects--Various Locations.......          42,510
    Judgment Fund--Various Locations....................          16,000
    BRAC Land Acquisition--Various Locations............          35,000
                                                         ---------------
        Total Veterans Health Administration............       1,076,800
                                                         ===============
  National Cemetery Administration:
    Chicago, IL--Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery--              38,300
     Gravesite Expansion and Cemetery Improvements--
     Phase 2............................................
    Houston, TX--Houston National Cemetery--Gravesite             35,000
     Expansion and Cemetery Improvements--Phase 4.......
    Advanced Planning Fund--Various Locations...........          13,400
    NCA Land Acquisition Fund--Various Locations........          25,500
                                                         ---------------
        Total National Cemetery Administration..........         112,200
General Administration--Staff Offices...................           5,000
                                                         ---------------
        Total construction, major projects..............       1,194,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      CONSTRUCTION, MINOR PROJECTS

      The conference agreement appropriates $703,000,000 for 
Construction, Minor Projects, instead of $722,800,000 as 
proposed by the House and $735,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conferees direct the Department to provide an 
expenditure plan within 30 days of enactment as proposed by the 
House, instead of November 10, 2009, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes an additional 
$50,000,000 for the renovation of unused buildings on 
Department of Veterans Affairs campuses for the purpose of 
providing housing with supportive services for homeless 
veterans. This funding will allow the Department to make the 
renovations and pursue public/private partnerships for 
operation. The conferees direct the Department to provide an 
expenditure plan for this funding to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress by April 9, 2010.

       GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STATE EXTENDED CARE FACILITIES

      The conference agreement appropriates $100,000,000 for 
Grants for Construction of State Extended Care Facilities, 
instead of $85,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$115,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

          GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STATE VETERANS CEMETERIES

      The conference agreement appropriates $46,000,000 for 
Grants for Construction of State Veterans Cemeteries, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes section 201 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for transfers among 
various mandatory accounts.
      The conference agreement includes section 202 as proposed 
by the House, instead of section 202 as proposed by the Senate 
allowing for the transfer of funds among the three medical 
accounts.
      The conference agreement includes section 203 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the use of 
salaries and expenses funds to be used for other authorized 
purposes.
      The conference agreement includes section 204 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate restricting the use of funds 
for the acquisition of land.
      The conference agreement includes section 205 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the use of funds in 
the Medical Services account to only entitled beneficiaries 
unless reimbursement is made to the Department.
      The conference agreement includes section 206 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the use of 
certain mandatory appropriations accounts for payment of prior 
year accrued obligations for those accounts.
      The conference agreement includes section 207 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the use of 
appropriations available in this title to pay prior year 
obligations.
      The conference agreement includes section 208 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing funds for the 
administration of the National Service Life Insurance Fund, the 
Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund.
      The conference agreement includes section 209 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the proceeds from 
enhanced-use leases to be obligated in the year in which the 
proceeds are received.
      The conference agreement includes section 210 as proposed 
by the House allowing for the use of funds in this title for 
salaries and other administrative expenses to be used to 
reimburse the Office of Resolution Management and the Office of 
Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication. The Senate 
bill contained a similar provision, but included a different 
amount.
      The conference agreement includes section 211 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the use of funds for 
any lease with an estimated annual rental cost of more than 
$1,000,000 unless approved by the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
      The conference agreement includes section 212 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate requiring the Secretary of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to collect third-party payer 
information for persons treated for non-service connected 
disability.
      The conference agreement includes section 213 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the use of 
enhanced-use leasing revenues for Construction, Major Projects 
and Construction, Minor Projects.
      The conference agreement includes section 214 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the use of 
Medical Services funds to be used for recreational facilities 
and funeral expenses.
      The conference agreement includes section 215 as proposed 
by the House, instead of section 215 as proposed by the Senate 
allowing for funds deposited into the Medical Care Collections 
Fund to be transferred to the Medical Services account.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 216 
as proposed by the Senate, instead of section 216 as proposed 
by the House which allows Alaskan veterans to use medical 
facilities of the Indian Health Service or tribal organizations 
at no additional cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs or 
the Indian Health Service.
      The conference agreement includes section 217 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate providing for the transfer of 
funds from the Department of Veterans Affairs Capital Asset 
Fund to the Construction, Major Projects and Construction, 
Minor Projects accounts and makes those funds available until 
expended.
      The conference agreement includes section 218 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the use of funds 
for any policy prohibiting the use of outreach or marketing to 
enroll new veterans.
      The conference agreement includes section 219 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate requiring the Secretary to 
submit quarterly reports on the financial status and service 
level status of the Veterans Health Administration.
      The conference agreement includes section 220 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate allowing for the transfer of 
funds from various accounts to the Information Technology 
Systems account to complete the restructuring of this 
appropriations account.
      The conference agreement includes section 221 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate providing for transfer of 
funds among projects within the Information Technology Systems 
account.
      The conference agreement includes section 222 as proposed 
by the Senate authorizing the transfer of not more than 
$5,000,000 to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for a 
Graduate Psychology Education Program which directly benefits 
veterans. The House bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes section 223 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting any funds to be 
used to contract out any function performed by more than ten 
employees without a fair competition process.
      The conference agreement includes section 224 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate limiting the obligation of 
non-recurring maintenance funds during the last two months of 
the fiscal year.
      The conference agreement includes section 225 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate amending section 1925 of title 
38 to reflect the movement of information technology functions.
      The conference agreement includes section 226 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate amending section 1928 of title 
38 to reflect the movement of information technology functions.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 227 
as proposed by the Senate designating the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center as the ``Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center''. The House bill contained 
no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes section 228 as proposed 
by the Senate that extends the authorization for the Veterans 
Benefits Administration office in Manila, Philippines to 
December 31, 2010. The House bill contained no similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement includes a new section 229 
authorizing the Department to provide service dogs to veterans 
with mental illnesses. The conference agreement does not 
include a provision as proposed by the Senate (Sec. 234) 
providing funds for implementation of section 1077 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010. The 
House bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 230 
as proposed by the Senate which designates the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Louisville, Kentucky as the 
``Robley Rex Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center''. 
The House bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 231 
as proposed by the Senate which modifies the provisions that 
allow for the transfer of Department of Veterans Affairs 
property to the City of Gulfport, Mississippi to include its 
urban renewal agency. The House bill contained no similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 232 
as proposed by the Senate which allows the Secretary to enter 
into cooperative agreements with State and local government 
entities for outreach. The House bill contained no similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 215) allowing the transfer of up 
to $200,000,000 to Medical Facilities. The House bill contained 
no similar provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the House (Sec. 218) prohibiting the expenditure of 
funds to replace the current system by which VISNs select and 
contract for diabetes monitoring supplies and equipment. The 
Senate bill contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 222) allowing transfer authority 
of prior-year balances to certain accounts. The House bill 
contained no similar provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 223) regarding Gulf War Illness 
research funding. The House bill contained no similar 
provision. This issue is instead addressed under Medical and 
Prosthetics Research.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 229) increasing funding for the 
``Grants for Construction of State Veterans Cemeteries'' 
account. The House bill contained no similar provision. This 
issue is instead addressed under Grants for Construction of 
State Veterans Cemeteries.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 230) increasing incentive pay for 
healthcare professionals in rural areas. The House bill 
contained no similar provision. This issue is instead addressed 
under Veterans Health Administration.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 233) increasing funding for the 
``Homeless Grant and Per Diem Program''. The House bill 
contained no similar provision. This issue is instead addressed 
under Medical Services.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 235) providing funding for 
outreach at institutions of higher learning. The House bill 
contained no similar provision. This issue is instead addressed 
under Items of General Interest.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 236) permitting State homes to 
provide services to certain non-veterans. The House bill 
contained no similar provision. This issue is instead addressed 
under Medical Services.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 238) increasing funding to the 
``Medical services'' account. The House bill contained no 
similar provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 240) increasing funding to the 
``Minor construction'' account. The House bill contained no 
similar provision. This issue is instead addressed under Minor 
Construction.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 242) directing the Office of 
Inspector General to conduct a study on combat stress in women 
veterans. The House bill contained no similar provision. This 
issue is instead addressed under Office of Inspector General.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 243) directing the Secretary to 
study the Department's telehealth infrastructure. The House 
bill contained no similar provision. This issue is instead 
addressed under Information Technology Systems.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 244) increasing funding to the 
Education Debt Reduction Program. The House bill contained no 
similar provision. This issue is instead addressed under 
Medical Services.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement appropriates $62,675,000 for 
Salaries and Expenses, instead of $61,800,000 as proposed by 
the House and $63,549,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement provides an additional 
$2,375,000 for non-recurring projects, equipment replacement, 
and an expansion of interpretive programs.
      The conferees direct the Commission to submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress by 
March 1, 2010, detailing funding required to correct 
maintenance and infrastructure deficiencies at all cemeteries 
and memorials for which the Commission is responsible.

                 FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement appropriates such sums as 
necessary for the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement appropriates $27,115,000 for the 
Salaries and Expenses account as proposed by the Senate, 
instead of $28,115,000 as proposed by the House. The amount 
provided includes $1,820,000 for the pro bono program as 
proposed by the Senate, instead of $2,820,000 as proposed by 
the House.
      Pro Bono Program.--The conferees note that the Veterans 
Consortium Pro Bono program has not published an annual report 
since 2006, and encourage that an annual report be published 
for 2010. The conferees further direct that a fiscal year 2010 
expenditure plan for the funding provided to the program in 
this agreement be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress by January 29, 2010.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement appropriates $39,850,000 for 
Salaries and Expenses, instead of $42,500,000 as proposed by 
the House and $37,200,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The increased funding above the budget request is to be 
used for relocation of power and telephone lines into duct 
banks along and under the roadways.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of the Army to report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
by February 26, 2010, on the progress to automate burial 
records.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               TRUST FUND

      The conference agreement appropriates $134,000,000 for 
the Armed Forces Retirement Home as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

      The conference agreement appropriates an additional 
$924,484,000 for Military Construction, Army as proposed by 
both the House and the Senate.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

      The conference agreement appropriates an additional 
$474,500,000 for Military Construction, Air Force as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate.

                        Administrative Provision

      The conference agreement includes Sec. 401 as proposed by 
the Senate designating the funds made available by this title 
as being for overseas deployments and other activities pursuant 
to the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2010. The House bill included similar language in title I.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the Senate (Sec. 401) making adjustments to certain 
projects in Afghanistan. The House bill contained no similar 
provision. This issue is instead addressed under Military 
Construction, Army.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement includes section 501 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the obligation of 
funds in this Act beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided.
      The conference agreement includes section 502 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate requiring pay raises to be 
absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act.
      The conference agreement includes section 503 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the use of the 
funds in this Act for programs, projects or activities not in 
compliance with Federal law relating to risk assessment, the 
protection of private property rights, or unfunded mandates.
      The conference agreement includes section 504 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the use of funds 
in this Act to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress.
      The conference agreement includes section 505 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate encouraging all Departments to 
expand their use of ``E-Commerce''.
      The conference agreement includes section 506 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate prohibiting the transfer of 
funds to any instrumentality of the United States Government 
without authority from an appropriations Act.
      The conference agreement includes section 507 as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate specifying the congressional 
committees that are to receive all reports and notifications.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 508 
as proposed by the House prohibiting the use of funds in this 
Act to be used for a project or program named for an individual 
serving as a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the 
House of Representatives. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 509 
as proposed by the House prohibiting the use of funds in this 
Act for the processing of new enhanced-use leases at the 
National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers located in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Senate bill contained no similar 
provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 510 
as proposed by the Senate requiring all reports submitted to be 
posted on official websites. The House bill contained no 
similar provision.
      The conference agreement includes a modified section 511 
prohibiting any funds for the Association of Community 
Organizations for Reform Now. The House bill contained no 
similar provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision as 
proposed by the House (section 409) requiring the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to report on the current and planned use of 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy in Department of Veterans Affairs 
medical facilities. This issue is addressed under the 
Department of Veterans Affairs in this explanatory statement. 
The Senate bill contained no similar provision.

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Following is a list of congressional earmarks and 
congressionally directed spending items (as defined in clause 9 
of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, respectively) 
included in the conference report or the accompanying 
explanatory statement of managers, along with the name of each 
Senator, House Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who 
submitted a request to the Committee of jurisdiction for each 
item so identified. Neither the conference report nor the 
explanatory statement of managers contains any limited tax 
benefits or limited tariff benefits as defined in the 
applicable House or Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of 
rule XXI of the rules of the House of Representatives, none of 
the congressional earmarks listed below were committed to the 
conference committee on H.R. 3288. However, all the following 
items were either (1) included in the Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 
(H.R. 3082) as passed by the House or the Senate, or (2) in the 
report of the committee of either House on H.R. 3082.

                                                                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                           Requester(s)
        Account                       Location                                    Project                            Amount     ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                    Administration           House                 Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Alabama: Fort McClellan              Urban Assault Course                                    $3,000,000  The President                             Sessions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Richardson              Airborne Sustainment Training Complex                   $6,100,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Richardson              Training Aids Center                                    $2,050,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Richardson              Warrior in Transition Complex                          $43,000,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Wainwright              Aviation Task Force Complex, Ph 1, Incr 1              $95,000,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Wainwright              Aviation Unit Operations Complex                       $19,000,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Wainwright              Railhead Complex                                       $26,000,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Alaska: Fort Wainwright              Warrior in Transition Complex                          $28,000,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Alaska: Clear AFS                    Power Plant Facility                                   $24,300,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Alaska: Elmendorf AFB                F-22 Weapons Load Training Facility                    $12,600,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Alaska: Elmendorf AFB                Red Flag Alaska Add/Alter Operations Center             $3,100,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Alaska: Elmendorf AFB                Aeromedical Services/Mental Health Clinic              $25,017,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Alaska: Fort Richardson              Health Clinic                                           $3,518,000  The President                             Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Arizona: Fort Huachuca               Battalion Headquarters UAV                              $6,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Arizona: Fort Huachuca               UAV ER/MPER/MP                                         $15,000,000  The President        Giffords
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Arizona: Camp Navajo                 Combat Pistol Qualification Course                      $3,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Arizona: Yuma MCAS                   Aircraft Maintenance Hangar Ph 1                       $27,050,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Arizona: Yuma MCAS                   Airfield Elec. Dist. and Control                        $1,720,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            Arizona: Phoenix                     Reserve Center Move to Luke AFB, NOSC Phoenix          $10,986,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Arizona: Davis-Monthan AFB           CSAR HC-130J Infrastructure                             $4,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Arizona: Davis-Monthan AFB           CSAR HC-130J RQS Operations Facility                    $8,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Arizona: Davis-Monthan AFB           CSAR HC-130J Simulator Facility                         $8,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Arizona: Davis-Monthan AFB           Dormitory (144 RM)                                     $20,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Arizona: Davis-Monthan AFB           TFI-Predator Beddown-FOC                                $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Arkansas: Pine Bluff Arsenal         Fuse & Detonator Magazine, Depot Level                 $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Arkansas: Little Rock AFB            C-130 Flight Simulator Addition                         $5,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    California: Fort Irwin               MOUT Assault Course, Ph 4                               $9,500,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 California: Los Alamitos             Readiness Center Ph 1                                  $31,000,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            California: Camp Pendleton           Army Reserve Center                                    $19,500,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            California: Los Angeles              Army Reserve Center                                    $29,000,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Bridgeport MWTC          Fire Station--Renovation                                $4,460,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           ANGLICO Operations Complex                             $25,190,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Aviation Transmitter/Receiver Site                     $13,560,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           BEQ                                                    $39,610,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Comm/Elec Maintenance Facility                         $13,170,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Communications Upgrades                                $79,492,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Electrical Distribution System                         $76,950,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Enlisted Dining Facility                               $32,300,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Enlisted Dining Facility--Edson Range                  $37,670,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Expand Combat Aircraft Loading Apron                   $12,240,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Expansion of SRTTP to 7.5 MGD                          $55,180,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Gas/Electrical Upgrades                                $51,040,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           North Region Tertiary Treatment Plant Ph 1, Incr      $112,330,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
                                                              1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Operations Access Points                               $12,740,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Recon BN Operations Complex                            $77,660,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Recruit Barracks--Field/K-Span                         $23,200,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Recruit Barracks--School of Infantry                   $53,320,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           Recruit Marksmanship Training Facility                 $13,730,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Camp Pendleton           WFTBN Support Facilities                               $15,780,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Edwards AFB              Ramp Extension                                          $3,007,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Miramar MCAS             Aircraft Parking Apron Modification                     $9,280,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Point Loma Annex         Public Works Shops Consolidation                        $8,730,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: San Diego MCRD           Messhall Expansion                                     $23,590,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         BEQ                                                    $37,290,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         BEQ                                                    $37,290,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Comm/Elec Maint/Storage                                $12,660,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Consolidated Armory--Tanks                             $12,670,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Construct Roads--North Mainside                        $29,360,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Dining Facility--North Mainside                        $17,200,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Elec. Infra. Upgrade--34.5 KV to 115 KV                $46,220,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Elec. Power Plant/Co-Gen/Gas Turbine--N                $53,260,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         HTHW/Chilled Water System                              $25,790,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Industrial Waste Water Pretreatment Sys.                $3,330,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Laydown Site Work--North Mainside                      $21,740,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Maint. Shop--Tracked                                   $19,780,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Maint. Shop--Wheeled                                   $16,040,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Maint. Sunshades--Wheeled                              $12,580,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Natural Gas System Extension                           $19,990,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Secondary Elec. Dist.--North Mainside                  $31,720,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Sewage System Imp. & Lift Station                       $5,800,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Station Comm Facility and Infrastructure               $49,040,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Sub-Station and Electrical Upgrades                    $31,310,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    California: Twentynine Palms         Water Improvements and Storage Tank                    $30,610,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            California: Alameda                  Reserve Training Center                                 $5,960,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               California: Travis AFB               KC-10 Cargo Load Training Facility                      $6,900,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               California: Vandenberg AFB           Child Development Center                               $13,000,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  California: S. Calif. Logistics      TFI-Predator Beddown-FTU/LRE Site                       $8,400,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
                         Airport
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            California: Coronado (La Posta)      SOF Close Quarters Combat Training Facility            $15,722,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            California: El Centro NAF            Aircraft Direct Fueling Station                        $11,000,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            California: Point Loma Annex         Replace Fuel Storage Fac Incr 2                        $92,300,000  The President        Davis (CA)           Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            California: Travis AFB               Replace Fuel Distribution System                       $15,357,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range                $7,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Automated Qualification Training Range                 $11,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Barracks & Dining, Incr 2                              $60,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Brigade Complex                                        $69,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Commissary                                             $35,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Convoy Live Fire Range                                  $6,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Modified Record Fire Range                              $4,450,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Railroad Tracks                                        $14,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Scout/Recce Gunnery Complex                            $16,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Training Aids Center                                   $18,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Urban Assault Course                                    $3,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Colorado: Fort Carson                Warrior in Transition Complex                          $56,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chem Demil              Colorado: Pueblo Depot               Ammunition Demilitarization Facility Ph XI             $92,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Colorado: Colorado Springs           Army Reserve Center/Land                               $13,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Colorado: Peterson AFB               C-130 Squad Ops/AMU (TFI)                               $5,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Colorado: Peterson AFB               National Security Space Institute                      $19,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Colorado: US Air Force Academy       Add to Cadet Fitness Center                            $17,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve             Colorado: Schriever AFB              Wing Headquarters                                      $10,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Colorado: Fort Carson                Health and Dental Clinic                               $31,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Colorado: Fort Carson                SOF Battalion Ops Complex                              $45,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Colorado: Fort Carson                SOF Military Working Dog Facility                       $3,046,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Connecticut: Bridgeport              Army Reserve Center/Land                               $18,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Delaware: Dover AFB                  C-5 Cargo Aircraft Maint Training Facility Ph 1         $5,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Delaware: Dover AFB                  Consolidated Communications Facility                   $12,100,000  The President        Castle               Carper; Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Anti-Armor, Tracking & Live Fire Range                  $3,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Automated Qualification Training Range                 $12,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Basic 10M--25M Firing Range (Zero)                      $3,050,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Grenade Launcher Range                                  $1,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Hand Grenade Qualification Course                       $1,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Indoor Firing Range                                     $8,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Light Demolition Range                                  $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Live Fire Exercise Breach Facility                      $4,950,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Live Fire Exercise Shoothouse                           $8,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Non-Standard Small Arms Range                           $3,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Operations Complex, Ph 3                               $80,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   Urban Assault Course                                    $2,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Florida: Miami-Doral                 SOUTHCOM Headquarters, Incr 3                          $55,400,000  The President        Diaz-Balart,
                                                                                                                                                       Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Florida: Panama City                 Army Reserve Center/Land                                $7,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Florida: West Palm Beach             Army Reserve Center/Land                               $26,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Blount Island               Port Operations Facility                                $3,760,000  The President        Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Eglin AFB                   BEQ, EOD School                                        $26,287,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Jacksonville NAS            P-8/MMA Facilities Modification                         $5,917,000  The President        Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Mayport NS                  Channel Dredging                                       $46,303,000  The President        Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Mayport NS                  Wharf Charlie Repair                                   $29,682,000  The President        Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Pensacola NAS               Corry A School BEQ R                                   $22,950,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Pensacola NAS               Simulator Addition for UMFO Program                     $3,211,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Florida: Whiting Field NAS           T-6B JPATS Training Ops Paraloft Facility               $4,120,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   Dormitory (96 RM)                                      $11,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 A/C Parking Apron                                 $27,652,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 Duke Control Tower                                 $3,420,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 Hydrant Refueling System, Ph 1                    $14,308,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 JP8 West Side Bulk Tank Upgrades                   $1,581,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 JP8 Flightline Fillstands                          $8,892,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 Live Ordnance Load Facility                        $9,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 Parallel Taxiway Ladder                            $2,371,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Eglin AFB                   F-35 POL Operations Facility                            $5,236,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Hurlburt Field              Electrical Distribution Substation                      $8,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: Hurlburt Field              Refueling Vehicle Maintenance Facility                  $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: MacDill AFB                 CENTCOM Commandant Facility                            $15,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: MacDill AFB                 Child Development Center                                $7,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Florida: MacDill AFB                 Dormitory (120 RM)                                     $16,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Florida: Eglin AFB                   SOF Military Working Dog Facility                       $3,046,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Florida: Hurlburt Field              SOF Simulator Facility for MC-130 (Recap)               $8,156,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Florida: Jacksonville IAP            Replace Jet Fuel Storage Complex                       $11,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Battle Lab                                             $30,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Combined Arms Collective Training Facility             $10,800,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Dining Facility                                        $15,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Fire and Movement Range                                 $2,800,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Trainee Barracks Complex, Ph 1                         $74,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Training Area Tank Trails                               $9,700,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Training Battalion Complex                             $38,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Training Battalion Complex, Ph 1                       $31,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Training Battalion Complex, Ph 1                       $31,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Benning                Warrior in Transition Complex                          $53,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Gillem                 Forensic Lab                                           $10,800,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Stewart                Automated Sniper Field Fire Range                       $3,400,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Stewart                Barracks & Dining, Incr 2                              $80,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Stewart                Brigade Complex                                        $48,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Georgia: Fort Stewart                Warrior in Transition Complex                          $49,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Georgia: Fort Benning                Readiness Center                                       $15,500,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Georgia: Atlanta                     Army Reserve Center/Land                               $14,000,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Benning                Blood Donor Clinic Replacement                         $12,313,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Benning                Dental Clinic                                           $4,887,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Benning                SOF Expand Battalion Headquarters                       $3,046,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Benning                Wilson ES Construct Gymnasium                           $2,330,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Stewart                Health and Dental Clinic                               $22,200,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Georgia: Fort Stewart                New Elementary School                                  $22,501,000  The President                             Chambliss
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Hawaii: Schofield Barracks           Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $63,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Hawaii: Schofield Barracks           Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $36,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Hawaii: Schofield Barracks           Warrior in Transition Barracks                         $55,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Hawaii: Schofield Barracks           Warrior in Transition Complex                          $30,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Hawaii: Wheeler AAF                  Regional SATCOM Information Center                      $7,500,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Hawaii: Oahu                         Range, 1000--Puuloa                                     $5,380,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Hawaii: Pearl Harbor                 APCSS Conference & Technology Learning Center          $12,775,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Hawaii: Pearl Harbor                 Missile Magazines (5), West Loch                       $22,407,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Hawaii: Pearl Harbor                 PACFLT Sub Drive-In Mag Silencing Facility (Incr)       $8,645,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Hawaii: Wheeler AAF                  ASOC Complex                                           $15,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Hawaii: Hickam AFB                   TFI--F-22 LO/Composite Repair Facility                 $26,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Hawaii: Hickam AFB                   TFI--F-22 Parking Apron and Taxiways                    $7,000,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Hawaii: Ford Island                  Pacific Operations Facility Upgrade                     $9,633,000  The President                             Inouye
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Idaho: Gowen Field                   Combined Arms Collective Training Facility             $16,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Idaho: Mountain Home AFB             Logistics Readiness Center                             $20,000,000  The President        Simpson              Crapo; Risch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Illinois: Chicago                    Army Reserve Center                                    $23,000,000  The President                             Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            Illinois: Joliet                     Reserve Training Center                                 $7,957,000  The President                             Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Indiana: Muscatatuck                 Combined Arms Collective Training Facility, Ph 2       $10,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Advanced Waste Water Treatment Plant                   $28,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Battalion Complex                                      $59,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Brigade Complex                                        $49,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Igloo Storage, Installation                             $7,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Land Vehicle Fueling Facility                           $3,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kansas: Fort Riley                   Training Aids Center                                   $15,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chem Demil              Kentucky: Blue Grass Depot           Ammunition Demilitarization Ph X                       $59,041,000  The President                             McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kentucky: Fort Knox                  Warrior in Transition Complex                          $70,000,000  The President                             McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Kentucky: Fort Campbell              Health Clinic                                           $8,600,000  The President                             McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Kentucky: Fort Campbell              SOF Battalion Ops Complex                              $29,289,000  The President                             McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Kentucky: Fort Campbell              SOF Military Working Dog Facility                       $3,046,000  The President                             McConnell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Louisiana: Fort Polk                 Land Purchases and Condemnation                        $17,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Louisiana: Fort Polk                 Warrior in Transition Complex                          $32,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Maine: Bangor IAP                    Replace Aircraft Maint Hangar/Shops                    $28,000,000  The President                             Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Maryland: Fort Detrick               Satellite Communications Center                        $18,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Maryland: Fort Detrick               Satellite Communications Facility                      $21,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Maryland: Andrews AFB                Replace Munitions Storage Area                          $9,300,000  The President        Edwards (MD)         Mikulski; Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Maryland: Andrews AFB                Replace Munitions Maintenance & Storage Complex        $14,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Aberdeen Proving Ground    USAMRICD Replacement, Incr II                         $111,400,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Detrick               Boundary Gate at Nalin Pond                            $10,750,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Detrick               Emergency Service Center                               $16,125,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Detrick               NIBC Truck Inspection Station & Road                    $2,932,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Detrick               USAMRIID Stage I, Incr IV                             $108,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Meade                 Mission Support--PSAT                                   $8,800,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Maryland: Fort Meade                 South Campus Utility Plant                            $195,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Massachusetts: Hanscom AFB           Armed Forces Reserve Center (JFHQ)                     $29,000,000  The President                             Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Minnesota: Arden Hills               Readiness Center Ph 2                                   $6,700,000  The President                             Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Minnesota: Camp Ripley               Urban Assault Course                                    $1,710,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Minnesota: Fort Snelling             Army Reserve Center                                    $12,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Minnesota: Duluth IAP                Jet Fuel Storage Complex                               $15,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Mississippi: Camp Shelby             Combined Arms Collective Training Facility Add/        $16,100,000  The President
                                                              Alt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve             Mississippi: Keesler AFB             Aerial Port Squadron Facility                           $9,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Automated-Aided Instruction Facility                   $27,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Transient Advanced Trainee Barracks, Ph 1              $99,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Warrior in Transition Complex                          $19,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Wheeled Vehicle Drivers Course                         $17,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Missouri: Boonville                  Readiness Center Add/Alt                                $1,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Dental Clinic Addition                                  $5,570,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Nebraska: Lincoln                    Armed Forces Reserve Center (JFHQ)                     $23,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Nebraska: Lincoln MAP                Joint Forces Operations Center--ANG Share               $1,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Nevada: North Las Vegas              Readiness Center                                       $26,000,000  The President                             Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Nevada: Creech AFB                   UAS AT/FP Security Updates                              $2,700,000  The President                             Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 New Mexico: Santa Fe                 Army Aviation Support Facility                         $39,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               New Mexico: Cannon AFB               WB--Consolidated Communication Facility                $15,000,000  The President        Lujan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               New Mexico: Holloman AFB             F-22A Consolidated Munitions Maint (TFI)                $5,500,000  The President                             Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               New Mexico: Kirtland AFB             HC-130J Simulator Facility                              $8,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               New Mexico: Kirtland AFB             MC-130J Simulator Facility                              $8,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            New Mexico: Cannon AFB               SOF AMU Addition (CV-22)                               $11,595,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            New Mexico: Cannon AFB               SOF Fuel Cell Hangar (MC-130)                          $41,269,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    New York: Fort Drum                  Barracks                                               $57,000,000  The President                             Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    New York: Fort Drum                  Warrior in Transition Complex                          $21,000,000  The President                             Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    New York: Fort Drum                  Water System Expansion                                  $6,500,000  The President                             Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            New York: Rochester                  Army Reserve Center/Land                               $13,600,000  The President                             Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range                $4,350,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Company Operations Facility                             $3,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Simulations Center                                     $50,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Transient Training Barracks Complex                    $16,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $19,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $17,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Sunny Point MOT      Lightning Protection System                            $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    North Carolina: Sunny Point MOT      Towers                                                  $3,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         4th Infantry Battalion Ops Complex                     $55,150,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         BEQ--Wallace Creek                                     $34,160,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         BEQ--Wallace Creek                                     $43,480,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         BEQ--Wallace Creek                                     $44,390,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         BEQ--Wallace Creek                                     $44,390,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         BEQ--Wallace Creek                                     $42,110,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Consolidated Info Tech/Telecom Complex                 $46,120,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Field Training Facility--Devil Dog--SOI                $37,170,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Maintenance/Ops Complex                                $52,390,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         MP Working Dog Kennel--Relocation                       $8,370,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         New Base Entry Point and Road Ph I                     $79,150,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Physical Fitness Center                                $39,760,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Pre-Trial Detainee Facility                            $18,580,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Road Network--Wallace Creek                            $15,130,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         SOI-East Facilities--Camp Geiger                       $56,940,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         Utility Expansion--Courthouse Bay                      $56,280,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Cherry Point MCAS    EMS/Fire Vehicle Facility                              $10,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: Cherry Point MCAS    Ordnance Magazines                                     $12,360,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: New River MCAS       Apron Expansion Ph 2                                   $35,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: New River MCAS       Gymnasium/Outdoor Pool                                 $19,920,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: New River MCAS       Parallel Taxiway                                       $17,870,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: New River MCAS       Tactical Support Van Pad Addition                       $5,490,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    North Carolina: New River MCAS       VMMT-204 Maintenance Hangar Ph 3                       $28,210,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Consolidated Health Clinic                             $26,386,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Health Clinic                                          $31,272,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Camp Lejeune         SOF Academic Instruction Facility Expansion            $11,791,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Battalion & Company HQ                             $15,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Battalion Headquarters Facility                    $13,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Military Working Dog Facility                       $1,125,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Military Working Dog Facility                       $3,046,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Operations Addition North                          $27,513,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF Operations Support Addition                        $13,756,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           SOF TUAV Hangar                                         $2,948,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Special Ops Prep & Conditioning Course                 $24,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Albritton JHS Addition                                  $3,439,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               North Dakota: Minot AFB              Missile Procedures Training Operations                 $10,000,000  The President        Pomeroy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               North Dakota: Minot AFB              Munitions Trailer Storage Facility                      $1,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Ohio: Cincinnati                     Army Reserve Center/Land                               $13,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Ohio: Wright-Patterson AFB           Conversion for Advanced Power Research Lab             $21,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Ohio: Wright-Patterson AFB           Info Tech Complex Ph 1                                 $27,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Ohio: Mansfield Lahm Airport         TFI--Red Horse Squadron Beddown                        $11,400,000  The President        Jordan (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Oklahoma: Fort Sill                  Automated Infantry Squad Battle Course                  $3,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Oklahoma: Fort Sill                  Barracks                                               $65,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Oklahoma: Fort Sill                  Warrior in Transition Complex                          $22,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Oklahoma: McAlester AAP              General Purpose Storage Building                       $11,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Oklahoma: McAlester AAP              High Explosive Magazine, Depot Level                    $1,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Oklahoma: Altus AFB                  Repair Taxiways                                        $20,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Oklahoma: Tinker AFB                 Building 3001 Hangar Door                              $13,037,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                  Oklahoma: Will Rogers World Airport  TFI--ASOS Beddown                                       $7,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Oklahoma: Fort Sill                  Dental Clinic                                          $10,554,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Oklahoma: Altus AFB                  Replace Upload Facility                                 $2,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Pennsylvania: Ashley                 Army Reserve Center                                     $9,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Pennsylvania: Harrisburg             Army Reserve Center                                     $7,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Pennsylvania: Newton Square          Army Reserve Center/Land                               $20,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Pennsylvania: Uniontown              Army Reserve Center/Land                               $11,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Defense-Wide         Pennsylvania: New Cumberland Depot   Family Housing                                          $2,859,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Rhode Island: Newport NS             Officer Training Command Quarters                      $45,803,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Charleston NWS       Pier and Loading/Unloading Ramps                        $5,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Charleston NWS       Railroad Tracks                                        $12,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Charleston NWS       Staging Area                                            $4,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Fort Jackson         Advanced Skills Trainee Barracks                       $32,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Fort Jackson         Infiltration Course                                     $1,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Fort Jackson         Modified Record Fire Range                              $3,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    South Carolina: Fort Jackson         Training Battalion Complex                             $66,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 South Carolina: Eastover             Army Aviation Support Facility Add/Alt                 $26,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 South Carolina: Greenville           Army Aviation Support Facility                         $40,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    South Carolina: Beaufort MCAS        Widebody Aircraft Fuel Lane                             $1,280,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    South Carolina: Parris Island MCRD   Electrical Substation and Improvements                  $6,972,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            South Carolina: Charleston           Reserve Vehicle Maintenance Facility                    $4,240,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Aircraft Fuel Storage                                  $10,800,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Automated Infantry Platoon Battle Course                $7,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range                $6,900,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Automated Sniper Field Fire Range                       $4,250,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Brigade Staging Area Complex                           $14,800,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Digital Multipurpose Range Complex                     $45,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Fire and Military Police Stations                      $16,500,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Known Distance Range                                    $4,750,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Light Demolition Range                                  $2,400,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Scout/Recce Gunnery Complex                            $17,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Simulation Center                                      $23,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Vehicle Maintenance & Company Ops Facility             $31,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $16,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Bliss                    Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $20,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Hood                     Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range                $6,700,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Hood                     Urban Assault Course                                    $2,400,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Hood                     Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $23,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Sam Houston              Access Control Point and Road Improvements             $10,800,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Texas: Fort Sam Houston              General Instruction Building                            $9,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Texas: Austin                        Armed Forces Reserve Center                            $16,500,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Texas: Austin                        Field Maintenance Shop, Joint                           $5,700,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Texas: Austin                        Armed Forces Reserve Center/AMSA                       $20,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Texas: Fort Bliss                    Army Reserve Center                                     $9,500,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Texas: Houston                       Army Reserve Center/Land                               $24,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Texas: San Antonio                   Army Reserve Center                                    $20,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Texas: Corpus Christi NAS            Operational Facilities for T-6                         $19,764,000  The President        Ortiz                Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            Texas: San Antonio                   Reserve Training Center                                 $2,210,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Dyess AFB                     C-130J Alter Hangar                                     $4,500,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Goodfellow AFB                Joint Intel Tech Training Facility, Ph 1 (TFI)         $18,400,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Goodfellow AFB                Student Dormitory (100 RM)                             $14,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Lackland AFB                  BMT Satellite Classroom/Dining Facility                $32,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Lackland AFB                  Evasion, Conduct After Capture Training                 $4,879,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Texas: Lackland AFB                  Recruit Dormitory 2, Phase 2                           $77,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve             Texas: Lackland AFB                  C-5 Ground Training Schoolhouse Addition                $1,500,000  The President        Gonzalez             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Texas: Fort Bliss                    Health and Dental Clinic                               $24,600,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Texas: Fort Bliss                    Hospital Replacement Incr 1                            $86,975,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Texas: Lackland AFB                  Ambulatory Care Center, Phase 1                        $72,610,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Texas: Lackland AFB                  Dental Clinic Replacement                              $29,318,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Texas: Fort Hood                     Alter Fuel Pump House and Fill Stand                    $3,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Utah: Dugway Proving Ground          Water Treatment Systems                                $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Utah: Hill AFB                       F-22A Radar Cross Section Testing Facility             $21,053,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve             Utah: Hill AFB                       Reserve Squad Ops/AMU Facility                          $3,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Utah: Camp Williams                  Data Center 1 Incr 2                                  $600,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Virginia: Fort A.P. Hill             Automated Infantry Platoon Battle Course                $4,900,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Virginia: Fort A.P. Hill             Field Training Area                                     $9,000,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Virginia: Fort A.P. Hill             Training Aids Center                                    $9,100,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Virginia: Fort Belvoir               Flight Control Tower                                    $8,400,000  The President        Moran (VA);          Warner; Webb
                                                                                                                                                       Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Virginia: Fort Belvoir               Road and Access Control Point                           $9,500,000  The President        Moran (VA);          Warner; Webb
                                                                                                                                                       Connolly (VA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Virginia: Fort Pickett               Regional Training Institute Ph 2                       $32,000,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Little Creek NAB           Naval Construction Division Operations Facility        $13,095,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Norfolk                    E-2D Trainer Facility                                  $11,737,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Norfolk                    Facility Upgrades for E-2D Program                      $6,402,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Portsmouth                 Ship Repair Pier Replacement                          $126,969,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               Aircraft Trainer                                        $3,170,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               Battalion Training Facility -MSGBN                     $10,340,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               Dining Facility--TBS                                   $14,780,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               MC Information Operations Center--MCIOC                $29,620,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               South Mainside Electrical Substation                   $15,270,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Virginia: Quantico MCB               Student Quarters--TBS (Phase 4)                        $32,060,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve            Virginia: Oceana NAS                 C-40 Hangar                                            $30,400,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Virginia: Langley AFB                West & LaSalle Gates Force Protection/Access           $10,000,000  The President        Nye                  Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Virginia: Pentagon Reservation       Pentagon Electrical Upgrade                            $19,272,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Virginia: Pentagon Reservation       Secondary Uninterruptable Power Raven Rock              $8,400,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Virginia: Dam Neck Annex             SOF Operations Facilty Inc III                         $15,967,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Virginia: Little Creek NAB           SOF Support Activity Operation Facility                $18,669,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Virginia: Dahlgren                   Aegis BMD Facility Expansion                           $24,500,000  The President                             Warner; Webb
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Washington: Fort Lewis               Animal Building                                         $3,050,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Washington: Fort Lewis               Brigade Complex, Incr 4                               $102,000,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Washington: Fort Lewis               Live Fire Exercise Shoothouse                           $2,550,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Washington: Fort Lewis               Modified Record Fire Range                              $4,100,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Washington: Bangor                   Limited Area Production/Storage Complex Incr 6         $87,292,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Washington: Bremerton                CVN Maintenance Pier Replacement Incr 2                $69,064,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Washington: Bremerton                Enclave Fencing/Parking, Silverdale                    $67,419,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Washington: Spokane                  Joint Personnel Recovery Agency Specialized SERE       $12,707,000  The President        Dicks
                                                              Training
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Washington: Fort Lewis               Health and Dental Clinic                               $15,636,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Washington: Fort Lewis               SOF Support Company Facility                           $14,500,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Washington: Fairchild AFB            Replace Fuel Distribution System                        $7,500,000  The President        Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Wisconsin: Fort McCoy                Combined Arms Collective Training Facility             $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Wyoming: F.E. Warren AFB             ADAL Missile Service Complex                            $9,100,000  The President                             Enzi; Barrasso
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Aviation Support Facility                               $2,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Barracks                                               $18,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Coalition Operation Center                             $49,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Fuel System Ph 6                                       $12,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Fuel System Ph 7                                        $5,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Passenger Terminal                                     $22,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Bahrain: Bahrain NSA                 Waterfront Development Ph 2                            $41,526,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Belgium: Brussels                    Replace Elementary School (SHAPE)                      $38,124,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Colombia: Palanquero AB              Air Base Development                                   $43,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Djibouti: Camp Lemonier              Ammo Supply Point                                      $21,689,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Djibouti: Camp Lemonier              Fire Station                                            $4,772,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Djibouti: Camp Lemonier              Interior Paved Roads Phase A                            $7,275,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Djibouti: Camp Lemonier              Security Fencing I                                      $8,109,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Germany: Ansbach                     Barracks                                               $17,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Germany: Ansbach                     Barracks                                               $14,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Germany: Kleber Kaserne              Barracks                                               $20,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Army                 Germany: Baumholder                  Family Housing Replacement Construction (138           $18,000,000  The President
                                                              Units)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Army                 Germany: Wiesbaden                   Family Housing Replacement Construction Incr 2         $10,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Army                 Germany: Wiesbaden                   Family Housing Replacement Construction Incr 2         $11,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Army                 Germany: Wiesbaden                   Family Housing Replacement Construction Incr 2         $11,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Germany: Ramstein AB                 Construct AGE Maint Complex                            $11,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Germany: Ramstein AB                 Contingency Response Group Command                     $23,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Germany: Spangdahlem AB              Fitness Center                                         $23,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Germany: Kaiserslautern              Kaiserslautern Complex Phase 1                         $19,380,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Germany: Kaiserslautern              Kaiserslautern HS Replace School                       $74,165,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Germany: Wiesbaden                   Wiesbaden HS New Cafeteria and Kitchen                  $5,379,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Greece: Souda Bay NS                 Fuel Storage Tanks & Pipeline Replacement              $24,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Guam: Andersen AFB                   Commando Warrior Operations Facility                    $4,200,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Guam: Andersen AFB                   NW Field ATFP Perimeter Fence and Road                  $4,752,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Guam: Andersen AFB                   NW Field Combat Support Vehicle Maint Facility         $15,500,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Guam: Andersen AFB                   Strike FOL Electrical Infrastructure                   $33,750,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Guam: Agana NAS                      Replace Gas Cylinder Storage Facility                   $4,900,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Guam: Barrigada                      Readiness Center                                       $30,000,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        AAFB North Ramp Parking Phase 1                        $88,797,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        AAFB North Ramp Utilities Phase 1                      $21,500,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        Apra Harbor Wharves Improvement Phase 1               $127,033,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        Consolidated SLC Training & CSS-15 HQ Facility         $45,309,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        Defense Access Road Improvements                       $48,860,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        Military Working Dog Relocation, Apra Harbor           $14,000,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Guam: Guam NB                        Torpedo Exercise Support Building                      $15,627,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy FH                 Guam: Guam NB                        Replace Guam N. Tipalao Ph III                         $20,730,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Guam: Guam NB                        Hospital Replacement Incr 1                           $259,156,000  The President        Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Guantanamo Bay: Guantanamo NS        Replace Fuel Storage Tanks                             $12,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Italy: Vicenza                       Brigade Complex- Barracks/Community, Incr 3            $22,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Italy: Vicenza                       Brigade Complex- Operations Support Facility,          $23,500,000  The President
                                                              Incr 3
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Italy: Sigonella NAS                 Global Hawk Aircraft Maint and Ops Complex             $31,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Japan: Okinawa                       Training Aids Center                                    $6,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Japan: Sagamihara                    Training Aids Center                                    $6,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Korea: Camp Humphreys                Fire Stations                                          $13,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Korea: Camp Humphreys                Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $19,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Korea: Camp Humphreys                Vehicle Maintenance Shop                               $18,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FH Navy                 Korea: Pusan                         Chinhae Welcome Center/Warehouse                        $4,376,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Korea: K-16 Airfield                 Convert Warehouses                                      $5,050,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            Korea: Osan AB                       Replace Hydrant Fuel System                            $28,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Kuwait: Camp Arifjan                 APS Warehouses                                         $82,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Qatar: Al Udeid AB                   Blatchford-Preston Complex Ph II                       $60,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve            Puerto Rico: Caguas                  Army Reserve Center/Land                               $12,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                    Spain: Rota NS                       Reception Airfield Facilities                          $26,278,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Turkey: Incirlik AB                  Consolidated Community Center                           $9,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            United Kingdom: Alconbury RAF        Medical/Dental Clinic Replacement                      $14,227,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            United Kingdom: Lakenheath RAF       Liberty IS--Gymnasium                                   $4,509,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            United Kingdom: Menwith Hill         MHS PSC Construction                                   $37,588,000  The President
                         Station
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide            United Kingdom: Mildenhall RAF       Fuel Tank Distribution Pipeline                         $4,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG                 Virgin Islands: St. Croix            Regional Training Institute Ph 1                       $20,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Airborne                Dining Facility                                         $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Airborne                Waste Management Area                                   $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Altimur                 Dining Facility                                         $2,150,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Altimur                 Waste Management Area                                   $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Asadabad                Waste Management Area                                   $5,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Access Roads                                           $21,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Command and Control Facility                            $4,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Drainage System, Phase 2                               $21,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               MEDLOG Warehouse                                        $3,350,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Army Pre-Positioned Stock Compound                     $38,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Command and Control Facility                           $38,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Perimeter Fence and Guard Towers                        $7,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Blessing                Waste Management Area                                   $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Bostick                 Waste Management Area                                   $5,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Dwyer                   Dining Facility                                         $6,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Dwyer                   Fuel System, Phase 1                                    $5,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Dwyer                   Waste Management Area                                   $6,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Frontenac               Dining Facility                                         $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Gardez                  Dining Facility                                         $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Gardez                  Fuel System, Phase 1                                    $6,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Gardez                  Tactical Runway                                        $28,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Ghazni                  Waste Management Complex                                $5,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Jalalabad               Ammunition Supply Point                                $35,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Jalalabad               Dining Facility                                         $4,350,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Jalalabad               Perimeter Fencing                                       $2,050,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Joyce                   Dining Facility                                         $2,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Joyce                   Waste Management Area                                   $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kabul                   Camp Phoenix West Expansion                            $39,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kabul                   USFOR-A Headquarters and Housing                       $98,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Command and Control Facility                            $4,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Command and Control Facility                            $4,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Command and Control Facility                            $4,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                South Park Roads                                       $11,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Tanker Truck Offload Facility                          $23,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Theater Vehicle Maintenance Facility                   $55,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Warehouse                                              $20,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Kandahar                Waste Management Complex                               $10,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Maywand                 Dining Facility                                         $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Maywand                 Waste Management Area                                   $5,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Methar-Lam              Waste Management Area                                   $4,150,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Salerno                 Dining Facility                                         $4,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Salerno                 Electrical Distribution Grid                            $2,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Salerno                 Fuel System, Phase 1                                   $12,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Salerno                 Runway Upgrade                                         $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Salerno                 Waste Management Complex                                $5,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Shank                   Dining Facility                                         $4,350,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Shank                   Electrical Distribution Grid                            $4,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Shank                   Waste Management Complex                                $8,100,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Shank                   Water Distribution System                               $2,650,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Sharana                 Aircraft Maintenance Facilities                        $12,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Sharana                 Ammunition Supply Point                                $14,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Sharana                 Electrical Distribution Grid                            $2,600,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Sharana                 Rotary Wing Parking                                    $32,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tarin Kowt              Ammunition Supply Point                                $35,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tarin Kowt              Dining Facility                                         $2,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tarin Kowt              Fuel System, Phase 2                                   $11,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tarin Kowt              Waste Management Area                                   $6,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Basic Load Ammunition Holding Area                      $7,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Dining Facility                                         $8,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Entry Control Point and Access Roads                   $14,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Fuel System, Phase 2                                   $14,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Level 3 Medical Facility                               $16,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Roads                                                   $4,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Water Supply and Distribution System                    $6,200,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Wolverine               Dining Facility                                         $4,350,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Wolverine               Fuel System, Phase 1                                    $5,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                    Afghanistan: Wolverine               Waste Management Complex                                $6,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Aviation Operations & Maintenance Facilities            $8,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Cargo Terminal                                         $13,800,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Bagram AB               Expeditionary Fighter Shelter                           $6,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Dwyer                   Cargo Handling Area                                     $4,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Aviation Operations & Maintenance Facilities           $10,500,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Cargo Helicopter Apron                                 $32,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                CAS Apron Expansion                                    $25,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Expeditionary Fighter Shelter                           $6,400,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                ISR Apron Expansion                                    $40,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Refueler Apron/Relocate HCP                            $66,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Relocate North Airfield Road                           $16,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Secure RSOI Facility                                    $9,700,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Kandahar                Tactical Airlift Apron                                 $29,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Shank                   Cargo Handling Area                                     $4,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tarin Kowt              Cargo Handling Area                                     $4,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Aviation Operations & Maintenance Facilities            $8,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Cargo Handling Area                                    $18,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       CAS Apron Expansion                                    $40,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Expeditionary Fighter Shelter                           $6,300,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       ISR Apron                                              $41,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Secure RSOI Facility                                   $10,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Tombstone/Bastion       Strategic Airlift Apron Expansion                      $32,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force               Afghanistan: Wolverine               Cargo Handling Area                                     $4,900,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
                                                                            [Congressionally Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                            Requester(s)
       Account                      Location                                       Project                              Amount     -------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                House                          Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Alabama: Anniston Depot              Industrial Area Electric System Upgrade                      $3,300,000  Rogers (AL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Alabama: Fort Rucker                 Water Survival Training Facility                               $401,000  Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Alabama: Redstone Arsenal            Gate 7 Access Control Point                                  $3,550,000  Griffith                       Sessions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide          Alabama: Redstone Arsenal            Missile and Space Intelligence Center EOEC                  $12,000,000  Griffith                       Shelby
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Alabama: Fort Rucker                 AVIM Hangar                                                  $1,170,000  Bright                         Sessions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Alaska: Fort Richardson              Combat Pistol Range                                          $4,900,000                                 Begich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Alaska: Eielson AFB                  Arctic Utilidors--Ph 11                                      $9,900,000  Young (AK)                     Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Alaska: Eielson AFB                  Taxiway Golf Lighting                                        $3,450,000  Young (AK)                     Murkowski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Arkansas: Little Rock AFB            Security Forces Operations Facility                         $10,400,000  Snyder                         Pryor; Lincoln
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Arkansas: West Memphis               Readiness Center                                             $1,240,000  Berry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Arizona: Fort Huachuca               Fire Station, Two Company                                    $6,700,000  Giffords
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  California: Bridgeport MWTC          Commissary                                                   $6,830,000  McKeon
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             California: Los Angeles AFB          Consolidated Parking Area Ph 1                               $8,000,000  Sanchez, Loretta
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve           California: March ARB                Small Arms Firing Range                                      $9,800,000  Calvert
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  California: Monterey NSA             Marine Meteorology Center                                   $10,240,000  Farr
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  California: Point Loma NB            Add/Alt Marine Mammal Surgical Center                        $2,330,000  Davis (CA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             California: Travis AFB               Taxiway Mike Bypass Road                                     $6,000,000  Tauscher                       Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                California: Fresno Yosemite          144th Squadron Operations Facility                           $9,800,000                                 Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Colorado: Peterson AFB               East Gate Realignment                                        $7,200,000  Lamborn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Colorado: Buckley AFB                Add/Alter Weapons Release                                    $4,500,000  Perlmutter                     Udall; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Colorado: Fort Carson                Convoy Skills Trainer (IED)                                  $1,950,000                                 Udall; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Colorado: Peterson AFB               Widen Paine Street                                           $2,000,000                                 Udall; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Connecticut: Bradley IAP             CNAF Beddown--Upgrade Facilities                             $9,000,000  DeLauro; Courtney; Larson      Dodd; Lieberman
                                                                                                                                     (CT); Himes; Murphy (CT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Connecticut: New London NSB          MK-48 Torpedo Magazine                                       $6,570,000  Courtney                       Dodd; Lieberman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Delaware: Dover AFB                  Chapel Center                                                $7,500,000  Castle                         Carper; Kaufman
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Florida: Hurlburt Field              Flight Test Operations Facility (413 FLTS)                   $9,400,000  Miller (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Florida: MacDill AFB                 Mission Support Facility                                       $384,000  Castor (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Florida: MacDill AFB                 Consolidated Communications Facility                        $21,000,000  Young (FL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Florida: Mayport NS                  Fitness Center                                              $26,360,000  Crenshaw
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Florida: Panama City NSA             Joint Diver A-School Dormitory                                 $520,000  Boyd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Florida: Eglin AFB                   Elevated Water Storage Tank (Camp Rudder)                    $1,200,000                                 Bill Nelson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Florida: Patrick AFB                 Combat Weapons Training Facility                             $8,400,000  Posey                          Bill Nelson; Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Georgia: Albany MCLB                 Weapons Maintenance Hardstand Facility                       $4,870,000  Bishop (GA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Georgia: Hunter AAF                  Readiness Center                                             $8,967,000  Kingston; Marshall             Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Georgia: Robins AFB                  Hot Cargo Pad/Taxiway                                        $6,200,000  Marshall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Georgia: Moody AFB                   Rescue Operations/Maintenance Headquarters Facility         $10,000,000                                 Chambliss; Isakson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Hawaii: Hickam AFB                   Ground Control Tower                                         $4,000,000  Abercrombie
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Hawaii: Kapolei                      Readiness Center (JFHQ)                                      $5,446,000  Abercrombie; Hirono
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Hawaii: Pearl Harbor NSY             Drydock 2 Starboard Waterfront Facility                        $850,000  Hirono; Abercrombie
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Hawaii: Kona IAP                     C-17 Kona Short Auxiliary Airfield                             $910,000                                 Inouye; Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Hawaii: Pearl Harbor NS              Production Services Support Facility                        $25,070,000                                 Inouye; Akaka
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Idaho: Mountain Home AFB             Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex                             $690,000  Simpson                        Crapo; Risch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Illinois: Lincoln Capital Airport    Relocate Base Entrance                                       $3,000,000  Hare; Jackson (IL); Schock;
                                                                                                                                     Shimkus
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Illinois: Scott AFB                  Aeromedical Evacuation Facility                              $7,400,000  Jackson (IL); Costello         Durbin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Illinois: Milan                      Readiness Center Expansion                                   $5,600,000                                 Durbin; Burris
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Indiana: Crane NSWC                  Strategic Weapons System Engineering Facility (Design)         $510,000  Ellsworth                      Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Indiana: Crane NSWC                  Strategic Weapons System Engineering Facility               $13,710,000  Ellsworth                      Lugar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Camp Dodge                     Motor Vehicle Storage Buildings, Freedom Center              $1,963,000  Boswell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Davenport                      Army Aviation Support Facility Add/Alt                       $2,000,000  Braley                         Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Fairfield                      Field Maintenance Shop Add/Alt                               $2,000,000  Loebsack                       Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Iowa Falls                     Add/Alt Readiness Center                                     $2,000,000  Latham                         Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Johnston                       Armed Forces Reserve Center/Field Maintenance Shop             $180,000                                 Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Iowa: Des Moines                     Alteration to Security Forces Facility                       $4,600,000  Boswell                        Harkin; Grassley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Iowa: Camp Dodge                     US Property and Fiscal Office                                $4,000,000  Boswell                        Harkin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Kansas: McConnell AFB                Upgrade DCGS                                                 $8,700,000  Tiahrt                         Brownback
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Kansas: Fort Riley                   Estes Road Access Control Point                              $6,100,000  Jenkins; Moran (KS)            Brownback; Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Kansas: Salina                       Taxiway Alterations, Aviation Support Facility               $2,227,000                                 Brownback; Roberts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Kentucky: Fort Campbell              Physical Fitness Complex                                       $900,000  Davis (TN); Tanner; Whitfield  McConnell; Bunning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Kentucky: Fort Campbell              Chapel Complex                                              $14,400,000  Wamp; Tanner; Whitfield        McConnell; Bunning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Kentucky: Frankfort                  Joint Forces Headquarters                                      $334,000  Chandler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Kentucky: London                     Phase IV Aviation Operations Facility                        $1,805,000  Rogers (KY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Kentucky: Standiford Field           Contingency Response Group Facility                            $600,000  Yarmuth
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide          Kentucky: Fort Campbell              5th SFG Language Sustainment Training Facility               $6,800,000  Wamp                           Alexander; Corker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Louisiana: Fort Polk                 Multipurpose Machine Gun Range                               $6,400,000  Fleming; Alexander             Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Louisiana: Barksdale AFB             Phase Five Ramp Replacement--Aircraft Apron Pavement        $12,800,000  Alexander; Fleming             Landrieu; Vitter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Maine: Portsmouth NSY                Consolidation of Structural Shops                            $2,000,000  Hodes; Pingree; Shea-Porter    Collins; Snowe; Gregg;
                                                                                                                                                                    Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Maine: Portsmouth NSY                Gate 2 Security Improvements                                 $7,090,000  Shea-Porter; Hodes; Pingree    Collins; Snowe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Maryland: Aberdeen Proving Ground    Information Processing Node, Ph 2                              $956,000  Ruppersberger; Kratovil
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Maryland: Andrews AFB                Physical Fitness Facility                                      $930,000  Edwards (MD)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Maryland: Carderock NSWC DET         RDTE Support Facility, Ph 2                                  $6,520,000  Van Hollen                     Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Maryland: Fort Detrick               Auditorium and Training Center Expansion                     $7,400,000  Bartlett
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Maryland: Fort Meade                 Intersection, Rockenbach Road & Cooper Avenue                $2,350,000  Kratovil; Sarbanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Maryland: Patuxent River NAS         Special Communications Engineering Facility                 $11,043,000  Hoyer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Maryland: Aberdeen Proving Ground    Advanced Chemistry Laboratory                               $15,500,000  Kratovil; Ruppersberger        Mikulski; Cardin
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Massachusetts: Barnes ANGB           F-15 Aircraft Ready Shelters                                 $8,100,000  Olver                          Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Massachusetts: Hanscom AFB           Joint Forces Operations Center--ANG Share                    $1,500,000  Tierney; Tsongas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Massachusetts: Hanscom AFB           Joint Force Headquarters                                     $2,663,000  Tierney; Tsongas               Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Massachusetts: Otis ANGB             Composite Operations and Training Facility                  $12,800,000  Delahunt                       Kennedy; Kerry
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Michigan: Camp Grayling              Barracks Replacement, Ph 2                                     $440,000  Stupak                         Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Michigan: Fort Custer (Augusta)      Organizational Maintenance Shop (ADRS)                       $7,732,000  Schauer                        Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Michigan: Alpena                     Replace Troop Quarters                                       $8,900,000  Stupak                         Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Michigan: Battle Creek ANGB          CNAF Beddown Facilities                                     $14,000,000  Schauer                        Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Michigan: Selfridge ANGB             A-10 Squad Operations Facility                               $7,100,000  Levin; Miller (MI)             Levin; Stabenow
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Minnesota: Minneapolis-St.Paul IAP   Add/Alt Starbase Facility                                    $1,900,000  Ellison                        Klobuchar
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Mississippi: Gulfport-Biloxi RAP     Relocate Base Entrance                                       $6,500,000  Taylor                         Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Mississippi: Columbus AFB            Aircraft Fuel Systems Maintenance Dock                       $9,800,000                                 Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Mississippi: Monticello              Readiness Center                                            $14,350,000  Harper                         Cochran; Wicker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Health Clinic                                                $7,800,000  Skelton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Missouri: Whiteman AFB               EOD Operations Complex                                       $7,400,000  Skelton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Missouri: Whiteman AFB               Land Acquisition North and South Boundaries                  $5,500,000  Skelton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Missouri: Fort Leonard Wood          Brigade Headquarters                                           $584,000                                 Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Missouri: Rosecrans Memorial         Replace Fire/Crash Rescue Station, Ph 2                      $9,300,000                                 Bond
                       Airport
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Montana: Fort Harrison               Add/Alt Troop Medical Facility                               $1,750,000  Rehberg                        Baucus; Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Montana: Malmstrom AFB               Upgrade Weapons Storage Area                                $10,600,000  Rehberg                        Baucus; Tester
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Nebraska: Offutt AFB                 STRATCOM Gate                                               $10,400,000  Terry                          Ben Nelson
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Nevada: Las Vegas                    Civil Support Team Ready Building                              $727,000  Titus; Berkley                 Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Nevada: Carson City                  Renewable Energy Sustainable Projects                        $2,000,000  Heller                         Reid
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Nevada: Fallon NAS                   Warrior Physical Training Facility                          $10,670,000                                 Reid; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Nevada: Reno                         Fire Station Replacement                                    $10,800,000  Heller                         Reid; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Nevada: Floyd Edsall TC              Add/Alt Clark County Armory                                  $2,000,000                                 Reid; Ensign
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                New Hampshire: Pease ANGB            Replace Squadron Operations Facilities                      $10,000,000  Hodes; Shea-Porter             Gregg; Shaheen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                New Jersey: Atlantic City IAP        Munitions Administration Facility                            $1,700,000  LoBiondo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             New Jersey: McGuire AFB              Warfighter and Family Support Center                         $7,900,000  Adler                          Lautenberg; Mendenez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  New Jersey: Picatinny Arsenal        Ballistic Evaluation Facility, Ph 2                         $10,200,000  Frelinghuysen                  Lautenberg; Mendenez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ANG                   New Jersey: McGuire AFB              Base Civil Engineering Complex                               $9,700,000  Adler; LoBiondo; Smith (NJ)    Lautenberg; Mendenez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             New Mexico: Cannon AFB               Dormitory (96 RM)                                              $450,000  Lujan                          Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             New Mexico: Holloman AFB             Fire/Crash Rescue Station                                   $10,400,000  Teague                         Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             New Mexico: Kirtland AFB             Add to Space RDTE Operations Center                          $5,800,000  Heinrich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide          New Mexico: Cannon AFB               SOF AC-130 Loadout Apron, Ph 1                               $6,000,000                                 Bingaman; Tom Udall
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  New York: Fort Drum                  All Weather Marksmanship Facility                            $8,200,000  McHugh                         Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                New York: Fort Drum                  Reaper LRE Beddown (Wheeler Sack AAF)                        $2,700,000  Maffei                         Schumer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve           New York: Niagara Falls ARS          Indoor Small Arms Range                                      $5,700,000  Slaughter; Lee (NY)            Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               North Carolina: East Flat Rock       Readiness Center Add/Alt                                     $2,516,000  Shuler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Field Support Brigade Headquarters                             $720,000  Kissell; McIntyre
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Tactical UAS Support Facility                                $6,038,000  McIntyre; Kissell              Burr
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  North Carolina: Fort Bragg           Automated Sniper Field Fire Range                            $3,450,000                                 Hagan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             North Carolina: Pope AFB             Air Traffic Control Tower                                    $9,000,000                                 Burr
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             North Carolina: Seymour Johnson AFB  Radar Approach Control Complex, Ph 1                         $6,900,000  Jones
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             North Dakota: Minot AFB              Control Tower/Base Operations Facility                       $1,710,000  Pomeroy                        Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               North Dakota: Bismarck               Raymond J. Bohn Readiness Center Addition                    $2,000,000  Pomeroy                        Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             North Dakota: Grand Forks AFB        Consolidated Security Forces Facility                       $12,000,000  Pomeroy                        Dorgan; Conrad
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Ohio: Beightler Armory               Joint Forces Headquarters (JOC) Addition                     $2,000,000  Kilroy                         Brown; Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Ohio: Ravenna                        Shoot House                                                  $2,000,000  Ryan (OH)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Ohio: Toledo Express Airport         Multi-Use Instructional Facility                             $2,000,000  Kaptur                         Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Ohio: Wright-Patterson AFB           Replace West Ramp, Ph 2                                     $10,600,000  Turner                         Brown; Voinovich
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Ohio: Zanesville ANGS                New Supply Warehouse                                         $1,000,000  Space
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Oklahoma: Tinker AFB                 T-9 Noise Suppressor                                         $5,200,000  Fallin                         Inhofe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Oklahoma: Vance AFB                  Control Tower                                               $10,700,000  Cole; Lucas                    Inhofe
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Oregon: Camp Rilea                   Water Supply System (Design)                                   $368,000  Wu                             Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Oregon: Polk County                  Readiness Center                                            $12,100,000  Schrader                       Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Oregon: Clatsop County, Warrenton    Water Supply System--Camp Rilea                              $3,369,000  Wu                             Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Oregon: Clackamas County             Camp Withycombe Infrastructure (Storm Sewer)                 $1,226,000  Blumenauer; Schrader           Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Oregon: Washington County            Readiness Center                                               $386,000  Wu                             Wyden; Merkley
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Pennsylvania: Luzerne                Readiness Center                                               $924,000  Carney
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Reserve           Pennsylvania: Pittsburgh             Visiting Quarters, Ph 1                                     $12,400,000                                 Specter; Casey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Rhode Island: Newport NS             Renovate Perry Hall/Training Support Facilities              $8,530,000  Kennedy                        Reed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Rhode Island: Newport NS             Renovation of Senior Enlisted Academy (Tomich Hall)         $10,550,000                                 Reed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                South Carolina: McEntire JRB         Joint Force Headquarters Building                            $1,300,000  Wilson; Clyburn                Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             South Carolina: Shaw AFB             Add/Alter USAFCENT Headquarters                             $21,183,000  Spratt                         Graham
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                South Dakota: Joe Foss Field         Add to Munitions Maintenance Complex                         $1,300,000  Herseth Sandlin                Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               South Dakota: Camp Rapid             Joint Forces HQ Readiness Center Supplement                  $7,890,000  Herseth Sandlin                Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               South Dakota: Camp Rapid             Troop Medical Clinic Add/Alt                                 $1,950,000  Herseth Sandlin                Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             South Dakota: Ellsworth AFB          Add/Alt Deployment Center                                   $14,500,000  Herseth Sandlin                Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                South Dakota: Joe Foss Field         Above Ground Multi-Cubicle Magazine Storage                  $1,300,000  Herseth Sandlin                Johnson; Thune
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Tennessee: Memphis                   Engineer Maintenance and Training Facility                   $9,800,000  Cohen                          Alexander; Corker
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve          Texas: Bryan                         Army Reserve Center                                         $12,200,000  Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Texas: Fort Bliss                    Access Control Points                                        $6,500,000  Reyes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Texas: Fort Hood                     Family Life Center                                          $10,800,000  Carter; Edwards (TX)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy Reserve          Texas: Fort Worth NAS/JRB            Replace Joint Base Communications Building                   $6,170,000  Granger
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Texas: Kelly Field Annex             Add/Alt Aircraft Maintenance Shops                           $7,900,000  Rodriguez; Gonzalez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Texas: Kingsville NAS                Solar Panel Array                                            $4,470,000  Ortiz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve          Texas: Robstown                      Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility                     $10,200,000  Ortiz
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Texas: Dyess AFB                     Mission Operations Center                                      $390,000  Neugebauer                     Hutchison; Cornyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Texas: Goodfellow AFB                Consolidated Learning Center                                $12,000,000                                 Hutchison; Cornyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Texas: Lackland AFB                  Consolidated Security Forces Ops Center, Ph 2                  $342,000  Gonzalez                       Hutchison; Cornyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Texas: Laughlin AFB                  Student Officer Quarters, Ph 2                                 $713,000  Rodriguez                      Hutchison; Cornyn
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Texas: Sheppard AFB                  European NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training Operations           $13,450,000                                 Hutchison; Cornyn
                                                            Complex, Ph 1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Utah: Hill AFB                       PCC Apron NW End Taxiway A                                   $5,100,000  Bishop (UT)                    Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Utah: Dugway Proving Ground          Life Science Test Facility Addition                          $2,890,000  Bishop (UT)                    Bennett; Hatch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Vermont: Ethan Allen Range           BOQ Add/Alt                                                  $1,996,000  Welch                          Leahy; Sanders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Vermont: Burlington IAP              Fire Crash and Rescue Station Add/Alt                        $6,000,000                                 Leahy; Sanders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Vermont: Morrisville                 Field Vehicle Maintenance Shop                                 $812,000  Welch                          Leahy; Sanders
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Virginia: Dahlgren NSWC              Electromagnetic Research & Engineering Fac Ph 2              $3,660,000  Wittman                        Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Virginia: Fort Lee                   Defense Access Roads                                         $5,000,000  Forbes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Virginia: Fort Eustis                Upgrade Marshalling Area                                     $8,900,000                                 Webb; Warner
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Washington: Everett NS               Small Craft Launch                                           $3,810,000  Larsen                         Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Washington: Fairchild AFB            Refueling Vehicle Maintenance Facility                       $4,150,000  McMorris Rodgers               Murray
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Washington: Fairchild AFB            SERE Force Support Complex, Ph 1                            $11,000,000  McMorris Rodgers               Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                  Washington: Fort Lewis               Fort Lewis-McChord AFB Joint Access                          $9,000,000  Smith (WA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense-Wide          Washington: Fort Lewis               Women's Health Center Facility                               $2,000,000  Smith (WA)                     Murray; Cantwell
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  Washington: Indian Island NM         Ordnance Storage Pads with Covers                           $13,130,000  Dicks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               West Virginia: Logan/Mingo County    Readiness Center                                               $501,000  Rahall                         Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               West Virginia: Parkersburg           Readiness Center                                             $2,234,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               West Virginia: Parkersburg           Field Maintenance Shop                                         $967,000  Mollohan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                West Virginia: Shepherd AB,          C-5 Taxiway Upgrades                                        $19,500,000                                 Byrd
                       Martinsburg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               West Virginia: St. Albans Armory     Life Safety Upgrade                                          $2,000,000                                 Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy                  West Virginia: Sugar Grove NSGA      Emergency Services Center                                   $10,990,000                                 Byrd
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Wisconsin: General Mitchell IAP      Add/Alt KC-135 Corrosion Control Hangar                      $5,000,000  Moore (WI)                     Kohl
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army Reserve          Wisconsin: Fort McCoy                Range Utility Upgrade                                        $3,850,000                                 Kohl
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air NG                Wyoming: Cheyenne Airport            Squadron Operations                                          $1,500,000                                 Enzi; Barrasso
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force             Guam: Andersen AFB                   Postal Service Center                                        $3,500,000  Bordallo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army NG               Puerto Rico: Camp Santiago           Urban Assault Course                                         $1,669,000  Pierluisi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                                 DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
                                                                            [Presidentially Directed Spending Items]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                           Requester(s)
      Account                          Location                                      Project                         Amount     ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                   Administration           House                  Senate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   California: Livermore                        Design and Land Purchase                          $55,430,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   California: Long Beach                       Seismic Corrections (Design)                      $24,200,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   California: San Diego                        Seismic Corrections (Design)                      $18,340,000  The President                             Feinstein; Boxer
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Colorado: Denver                             New Medical Facility                             $119,000,000  The President                             Mark Udall; Bennet
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Florida: Bay Pines                           Inpatient/Outpatient Improvements                 $96,800,000  The President                             Bill Nelson; Martinez
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Florida: Orlando                             New Medical Facility                             $371,300,000  The President      Brown, Corrine;        Bill Nelson; Martinez
                                                                                                                                                     Kosmas; Posey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Illinois: Abraham Lincoln Nat'l Cemetery     Gravesite Expansion and Cemetery                  $38,300,000  The President                             Durbin
                                                                   Improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Maryland: Perry Point                        Replacement Community Living Center (Design)       $9,000,000  The President                             Mikulski
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Massachusetts: Brockton                      Long-Term Care Spinal Cord Injury Unit            $24,040,000  The President                             Kennedy; Kerry
                                                                   (Design)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Missouri: St. Louis (JB)                     Medical Fac. Improvements & Cemetery              $19,700,000  The President                             Bond
                                                                   Expansion
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Missouri: St. Louis (JC)                     Replace Bed Tower/Clinic Expansion (Design)       $43,340,000  The President                             Bond
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   New York: Canandaigua                        Construction and Renovation (Design)              $36,580,000  The President                             Schumer; Gillibrand
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Texas: Houston National Cemetery             Gravesite Expansion and Cemetery                  $35,000,000  The President                             Hutchison
                                                                   Improvements
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Major Construction   Puerto Rico: San Juan                        Seismic Corrections                               $42,000,000  The President
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                           
                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

                        (In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...    $126,810,267
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................     133,487,510
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................     181,903,656
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................     182,101,656
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................     182,750,300
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................     +55,940,033
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................     +49,262,790
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................        +846,644
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................        +648,644

                               DIVISION F

     DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

      In implementing this conference agreement, the 
departments and agencies should be guided by the language and 
instructions set forth in House Report 111-187 (hereby referred 
to as ``the House Report'') accompanying the bill H.R. 3081 and 
Senate Report 111-44 (hereby referred to as ``the Senate 
Report'') accompanying the bill S. 1434. In cases where the 
language and instructions in either report specifically address 
the allocation of funds, each has been reviewed by the 
conferees and the agreed upon amounts are detailed in this 
joint statement. In addition, in cases in which the House or 
Senate directed the submission of a report, the joint statement 
directs submission of those reports in which the conferees 
concur. Finally, the conferees agree that, unless otherwise 
specifically addressed in this joint statement, direction 
related to notification, prior consultation, and/or guidance 
with respect to organizations or other entities contained in 
either the House or Senate Reports should be adhered to by the 
relevant departments and agencies.

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $8,227,000,000 for 
Diplomatic and Consular Programs (D&CP), which is $2,300,000 
below the House and the same as the Senate. Within the total, 
$6,640,786,000 is for ongoing operations, including public 
diplomacy activities, and $1,586,214,000 is for Worldwide 
Security Protection. The Department of State may reprogram 
funds between functions as required, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations. 
Funds made available under this heading are to be allocated 
according to the following table, subject to the provisions of 
section 7019 of this Act:

                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS
               (Budget authority in thousands of dollars)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                       Subcategory                           authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Human Resources.........................................       2,667,130
    Public Diplomacy....................................         138,075
    Human Resources Initiative..........................         118,279
    Worldwide Security Protection.......................         220,840
Overseas Programs.......................................       2,495,158
    Locally Employed Staff..............................         695,000
    Public Diplomacy....................................         381,800
    Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation.........           5,750
    Cultural Antiquities Task Force.....................           1,000
Diplomatic Policy and Support...........................         892,012
    Democracy, Human Rights and Labor...................          22,659
    Intelligence and Research...........................          63,879
    Oceans and International Environmental and                    36,917
     Scientific Affairs.................................
    Office of Global Women's Issues.....................           3,114
    Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons.           6,010
Security Programs.......................................       2,172,700
    Worldwide Security Protection.......................       1,365,374
        Total--D&CP.....................................       8,227,000
Public Diplomacy Subtotal...............................         519,875
Worldwide Security Protection Subtotal (Excludes               1,586,214
 $13,375,000 requested for fiscal year 2010 that was
 appropriated in the Supplemental Appropriations Act,
 2009 (Public Law 111-32))..............................
Iraq Operations Subtotal (Excludes $336,000,000               1,121,641
 requested for fiscal year 2010 that was appropriated in
 the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law
 111-32))...............................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

      In addition, the conference agreement includes authority 
to collect $8,158,305 from certain authorized fees and 
payments. The Department of State also projects that authorized 
fee revenues for the Border Security Program of the Department 
of State will total $1,657,515,000 in fiscal year 2010.
      The conference agreement includes authority for the 
Secretary of State to transfer up to $10,000,000 of the funds 
available under this heading to funds available under the 
Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service heading for 
emergency evacuations and rewards payments, as authorized, as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a requirement that the 
Secretary of State submit to the Committees on Appropriations a 
report detailing planned expenditures for funds appropriated 
under this heading, not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, which was not in the House or Senate bills. The 
conferees expect the report to include accompanying tables that 
compare the planned fiscal year 2010 spending levels to the 
actual expenditures for the prior fiscal year and that these 
tables be updated and submitted when any reprogramming 
notification is submitted.
Worldwide Security Protection
      The conference agreement provides $1,586,214,000 for 
Worldwide Security Protection, which is $8,787,000 above the 
House and $8,786,000 below the Senate. The conferees note that 
$13,375,000 requested for fiscal year 2010 was included in the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32), 
bringing the total available for Worldwide Security Protection 
in fiscal year 2010 to $1,599,589,000. Within the amount 
provided, $221,926,000, and a projected 200 security positions, 
are to strengthen the Department's capacity to respond to the 
growing security challenges at posts around the world, 
including the requested positions for the second year of the 
Visa and Passport Security Plan.
Enhancing Diplomatic Capacity and Readiness
      Human Resources Initiative (HRI).--The conference 
agreement does not include a provision specifying an amount for 
the HRI, as proposed by the Senate. Instead, the amount for the 
HRI is included in the table above.
      The conference agreement includes $344,190,000 and a 
projected 745 positions to enhance the diplomatic capacity and 
readiness of the Department of State. Within the total, 
$118,279,000, and 565 new positions, is for phase II of the 
HRI, as proposed by the House and Senate. These additional 
funds provided in fiscal year 2010 will continue the expansion 
of the Department's training capacity, increase representation 
on interagency and Defense staffs, and augment the overseas 
diplomatic presence at strategic posts worldwide. The balance, 
$225,911,000 and a projected 180 positions, is to meet workload 
demands and resource requirements at posts in Africa, East Asia 
and the Pacific, Europe and Eurasia, the Near East, South 
Central Asia, and the Western Hemisphere, as well as to begin 
to address the vacancy rate in domestic Foreign and Civil 
Service positions. The conferees agree that the Secretary of 
State should give priority to overseas assignments in 
allocating these positions.
      Locally Employed Staff (LES).--The conference agreement 
does not include a provision regarding LES, as proposed by the 
Senate. However, the conferees recognize and appreciate the 
invaluable contributions of LES to overseas operations and 
programs, and note that they often serve without adequate 
salary increases and/or at less-than-prevailing wages and 
compensation packages.
      The conferees recommend $695,000,000 for salary and 
compensation (including awards and special benefits) for LES, 
and endorse the directive in the Senate bill regarding the 
review/database, guidelines, and the definition of LES in 
section 7069(b), (c), and (d), respectively, except that the 
Department of State shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations on the appropriate length of periodic reviews of 
salary and compensation guidelines.
      Personnel Strategy.--The conference agreement requires 
the Secretary of State to submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a strategy for projected personnel requirements 
for the Department of State over the next three fiscal years, 
similar to that proposed by the Senate. This strategy should 
describe the resources required for hiring, training, and 
deploying new personnel to domestic and overseas positions, 
including resources necessary for office and housing 
facilities. Concurrent with the submission of this strategy, 
the Secretary of State is directed to submit a report 
describing the hiring, training, and deploying of new staff 
since fiscal year 2008, including resources expended for such 
purposes to date, and to update this report on a semi-annual 
basis.
Funding Issues
      Afghanistan Operations.--The conference agreement 
provides $485,595,000 for diplomatic operations in Afghanistan 
for fiscal year 2010, which is the same as the request, after 
including funds requested for fiscal year 2010 that were 
appropriated in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
(Public Law 111-32). The conferees understand that operational 
requirements in Afghanistan may change, and direct that any 
such change be subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, including changes to the 
civilian staffing surge that are above the previously justified 
levels.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act and every 60 days thereafter through 
September 30, 2010, a report detailing all United States 
Government personnel serving in Afghanistan, including on a 
temporary duty basis. This report may be submitted in 
classified form, if necessary, and may be consolidated with the 
reporting requirement on civilian staffing levels in Pakistan.
      The conference agreement does not include a prohibition 
on the use of funds in the Act to acquire property in Kabul, 
Afghanistan, as proposed by the Senate. Instead, section 
7004(c) of this Act requires the Secretary of State to consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations prior to any final 
decision to acquire property for diplomatic facilities in 
Kabul.
      The conferees note that $25,000,000 was included for the 
Department of State's Afghanistan airwing in the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32). The balance of 
the funds requested for fiscal year 2010, $35,000,000, is 
included in this conference agreement.
      Cultural Heritage.--The conference agreement provides 
$5,750,000 for the Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation, 
of which $1,000,000 is to support at least two large projects 
of historic cultural significance, as proposed in the Senate 
Report. The conferees are aware that the Department of State 
may use funds made available under the Economic Support Fund 
(ESF) heading in title III to support additional cultural 
preservation projects. The conferees intend that all funds made 
available from this Act for cultural preservation projects be 
subject to the Committee's regular notification procedures and 
that the projects should be selected utilizing the technical 
expertise of the Department's Cultural Heritage Center, 
including the technical review and competitive process 
established by the Center.
      Iraq Operations.--The conference agreement provides 
$1,121,641,000 for Department of State Operations in Iraq. This 
is in addition to $336,000,000 appropriated under this heading 
in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-
32) for fiscal year 2010, bringing the total available for such 
purposes in fiscal year 2010 to $1,457,641,000.
      The conferees direct the Department of State to use funds 
provided for operations in Iraq to address the requirements 
identified by the Office of Inspector General in Report Number 
MERO-A-09-10 that arise from the anticipated military drawdown, 
including enhanced security around Embassy Baghdad's compound, 
convoy security for fuel, food, and other supplies, commercial 
air travel as an alternative to military transport, and 
contracting issues regarding the replacement of United States 
Army Corps of Engineers' support services.
      The conferees continue to encourage the Chief of Mission 
in Iraq to conduct periodic rightsizing reviews to ensure 
appropriate civilian staffing levels before, during, and after 
the anticipated United States military drawdown.
      Intelligence and Research.--The conferees endorse Senate 
Report language regarding the Department of State's Bureau of 
Intelligence and Research, including $1,000,000 above the 
request to support six additional analysts for priority 
countries.
      Joint Action Plan.--The conference agreement includes 
sufficient funds for the Secretary of State to allocate the 
resources and experienced personnel necessary to staff and 
implement the United States-Brazil Joint Action Plan to 
Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Discrimination and Promote Equality 
(JAPER), as proposed by the House.
      Leahy Vetting.--The conference agreement does not include 
a Senate provision to transfer funds appropriated under the 
Foreign Military Financing Program (FMF) heading to the D&CP 
heading for the Department of State's Bureau of Democracy, 
Human Rights and Labor to support monitoring of the uses of FMF 
assistance. However, the conferees direct that not less than 
$2,000,000 from funds made available under this heading be used 
for such purpose, and that the Secretary of State consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of 
these funds.
      Pakistan Operations.--The conference agreement provides 
$45,837,000 for diplomatic operations in Pakistan for fiscal 
year 2010, which is the same as the request. The conferees 
understand that operational requirements in Pakistan may change 
and direct that any such change be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
including changes to the civilian staffing surge that are above 
the previously justified levels.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act and every 60 days thereafter through 
September 30, 2010, a report detailing all United States 
Government personnel serving in Pakistan, including on a 
temporary duty basis. This report may be submitted in 
classified form, if necessary, and may be consolidated with the 
reporting requirement on civilian staffing levels in 
Afghanistan.
Other Issues, Directives and Reporting Requirements
      American Corners.--The conferees support the mission of 
American Corners and Centers in making information about the 
United States readily available to the public in foreign 
countries through open and accessible places of learning. The 
conferees support relocating such Centers outside of New 
Embassy Compounds wherever feasible, consistent with 
appropriate security considerations. The conferees support the 
timely relocation of the American Center in Rangoon, Burma.
      The conferees direct the Deputy Secretary for Management, 
in consultation with the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy 
and Public Affairs, the Director of the Office of Overseas 
Building Operations and the Assistant Secretary, Bureau of 
Diplomatic Security, to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
Act, identifying possible Centers for relocation. The report 
should include security parameters, cost estimates, and 
proposed funding resources for such relocations.
      The conferees endorse the Senate Report requirement for 
an assessment of the security implications and public diplomacy 
gains of establishing United States public diplomacy facilities 
in locations that maximize their use, except that the 
assessment may be submitted in classified form, if necessary.
      International Child Abductions.--The conferees are 
concerned with custody cases involving American children in 
Jordan, Japan, Brazil, Lebanon, Syria, and other countries, and 
expect the governments of such countries to expeditiously 
enforce court orders related to such cases. The conference 
agreement does not include a provision proposed by the House 
related to international child abductions. Instead, the 
conferees direct the Secretary of State to provide periodic 
updates to the appropriate congressional committees on 
international child abductions, including information regarding 
international parental child abductions that are reported to 
the Office of Children's Issues. The conferees expect the 
Department of State to maintain an electronic database in order 
to track international child abduction cases and facilitate the 
provision of timely information to interested members of the 
House and Senate, to the extent that the parent or guardian 
provides written authorization to do so.
      Overseas Schools.--The conferees commend the consolidated 
Overseas Schools Assistance Program for its work in improving 
educational standards for the children of American families 
living abroad, and the contributions of the Overseas Schools 
Advisory Council and its Program of Educational Assistance that 
helps bring quality educational services to American overseas 
schools.
      Report on Procurement and Acquisition.--On January 9, 
2008, the Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs notified 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Department of State's 
intent to fund the acquisition function of the Department on a 
``fee-for-service'' basis through a one percent assessment on 
the appropriations accounts funding the acquisition. The 
conferees understand that the rationale for this change was to 
improve both the responsiveness and accountability of the 
acquisition/procurement process at the Department. The 
conferees direct the Undersecretary for Management to submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 90 
days after enactment of this Act, which details the manner in 
which the ``fee-for-service'' plan was and is being used to 
improve the responsiveness and oversight of the Department's 
procurement and acquisition processes. The conferees expect the 
report to include the number of direct-hire and contract 
personnel added in fiscal years 2008 and 2009, and the benefit 
of these personnel and funds in providing increased technical 
assistance and oversight to these activities.
      Report on Agreements for Transfer and Release of 
Detainees.--The conferees direct the Secretary of State to 
report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations when any 
agreement is concluded with any country that will receive, by 
transfer or release, any individual detained at Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. This requirement includes agreements with 
states with a compact of free association with the United 
States. The report shall be submitted not later than five days 
after the conclusion of such agreement.
      Secure Passports.--The conferees endorse House Report 
language on secure United States passports, and believe that 
the passport should provide the highest levels of resistance to 
counterfeiting, alteration and image substitution. The 
conferees further expect the Department of State to undertake a 
review of the current security materials used on the passport, 
particularly the data page, in order to strengthen its 
security.

                   CIVILIAN STABILIZATION INITIATIVE

      The conference agreement provides $120,000,000 under this 
heading for the Civilian Stabilization Initiative (CSI), which 
is $5,000,000 below the House and $30,000,000 below the Senate. 
In addition, $30,000,000 is provided under title II for the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for 
the CSI, as proposed by the House, for a total of $150,000,000 
to stand-up, equip and deploy a coordinated civilian response 
capacity.
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, withholding $10,000,000 from 
obligation until the Secretary of State reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Department of State has 
signed a memorandum of understanding with the Department of 
Defense relating to the provision of airlift for deployment of 
Civilian Response Corps (CRC) Standby and Active personnel and 
equipment.
      The conference agreement does not include bill language 
limiting to $5,000,000 the amount made available for 
procurement of armored vehicles, as proposed by the Senate. 
However, the conferees agree with this limitation and direct 
that not more than $5,000,000 of the funds made available under 
this heading be used for such purpose.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
prohibiting the use of funds to establish a Reserve component 
of the CRC. However, the conferees direct that no funds be made 
available for this purpose. The conference agreement requires 
the submission of a joint spending plan, coordinated with 
USAID, for funds made available under this heading and the CSI 
heading in title II not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, as proposed by the House and Senate. The conferees 
also endorse House Report language requiring notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
deployment of a CRC Active and/or Standby unit, to include the 
destination, size, composition, and expected duration of 
deployment of such unit.
      Funds made available under this heading are to be 
allocated according to the following table, subject to the 
provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

               TITLE I, CIVILIAN STABILIZATION INITIATIVE
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                        Activity                             authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Salaries, benefits and other personnel costs for Active          21,000
 CRC....................................................
Training for Active and Standby CRC.....................         15,220
Reserve CRC.............................................              0
Equipment Acquisition...................................         25,000
Deployments.............................................         29,660
Deployment Center.......................................              0
CRC Operations Support..................................          8,020
S/CRS Policy and Planning...............................         21,100
                                                         ---------------
    Subtotal, CSI--Department of State..................        120,000
                                                         ---------------
Budget Authority--Title II, CSI--USAID..................        [30,000]
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND

      The conference agreement provides $139,000,000 for the 
Capital Investment Fund, which is $4,300,000 above the House 
and $21,000,000 below the Senate.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $100,000,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG), which is $8,000,000 below 
the House and the same as the Senate, of which $23,000,000 is 
for the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 
(SIGIR), and $23,000,000 is for the Special Inspector General 
for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for reconstruction 
oversight, as proposed by the Senate.
      In addition to the amount made available under this 
heading, $2,000,000 is transferred to this account from funds 
made available under the ESF heading to augment funds made 
available to the OIG for oversight of assistance activities in 
Pakistan, which brings the total available in this Act for the 
OIG to $56,000,000.
      Within the total amount made available to the OIG in 
fiscal year 2010, the conferees understand that the current 
program plan includes $20,100,000 for the OIG's oversight of 
programs and investigations of fraud, waste, and abuse in the 
Middle East and South Asia, including Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
Pakistan, and to establish an OIG satellite office in Islamabad 
and support the regional office in Amman and the existing 
satellite offices in Baghdad, Cairo, and Kabul. The conferees 
further understand that future events may require the 
modification of this plan and that such modifications are 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
      The Inspectors General of the Department of State, USAID, 
SIGIR, and SIGAR each have independent oversight and 
investigative responsibilities in Iraq and Afghanistan. The 
Inspectors General should, to the maximum extent practicable, 
coordinate, and de-conflict all activities related to oversight 
and investigation of assistance programs for the reconstruction 
of Iraq and Afghanistan to ensure that resources are used 
effectively and are not unnecessarily duplicative. The 
Inspectors General of the Department of State and USAID are 
directed to consult with the Committees on Appropriations on 
the joint oversight plan in Afghanistan.
      The conferees understand that SIGIR will use a portion of 
the funds made available in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to make 
short-term appointments of experienced, career prosecutors and 
detail them to the Criminal Division of the Department of 
Justice, where they will work on cases that fall within SIGIR's 
jurisdiction. The conferees strongly support efforts by SIGIR 
and the Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute 
cases of fraud and criminal activity associated with assistance 
programs in Iraq.
      The conferees do not intend for the SIGAR to utilize 
funds made available under this heading in this or prior Acts 
to conduct training or other development programs for Afghan 
ministries.

               EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $635,000,000 for 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs (ECE), which is 
$35,000,000 above the House and $243,000 below the Senate. 
Funds made available under this heading are to be allocated 
according to the following table, subject to the provisions of 
section 7019 of this Act:

               EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                       Program/activity                        authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Academic Programs:
    Fulbright Program........................................    253,826
    Global Academic Exchanges:
        Educational Advising and Student Services............     12,908
        English Language Programs............................     46,563
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal--Global Academic Exchanges..................     59,471
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Special Academic Exchanges:
    Regional Graduate Fellowships............................     22,660
    American Overseas Research Centers.......................      5,000
    South Pacific Exchanges..................................        500
    Timor Leste Exchanges....................................        500
    Mobility (Disability) Exchange Clearinghouse.............        500
    Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship Program........     10,420
    George Mitchell Fellowship Program.......................        500
    University of Miami Hemispheric Program..................        500
    Tibet Fund...............................................        750
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal--Special Academic Exchanges.................     41,330
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            TOTAL--ACADEMIC PROGRAMS.........................    354,627
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Professional and Cultural Exchanges:
    International Visitor Program............................     95,025
    Citizen Exchange Programs................................    102,000
    Kennedy-Lugar Youth Ambassadors Program (YES)............     25,000
  Special Professional and Cultural Exchanges:
    Congress Bundestag Youth Exchange Program................      4,000
    Mike Mansfield Fellowship Program........................      1,902
    Irish Institute..........................................      1,020
    Ngwang Choephel Fellows (Tibet)..........................        650
    Youth Science Leadership Institute of the Americas.......        150
    Institute for Representative Government..................        496
    Pakistan Literacy Training Program.......................        375
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal--Special Professional and Cultural Exchanges      8,593
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            TOTAL--PROFESSIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES.......    205,618
------------------------------------------------------------------------
One-Time Competitive Grants Program..........................      8,000
Program Evaluation...........................................      6,174
Exchanges Support............................................     60,581
            TOTAL--ECE.......................................   635,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

      The conferees endorse House Report language concerning 
the continuation of funding for certain exchange programs 
detailed under this heading in paragraphs four and five of the 
House Report. The conferees also endorse House Report language 
regarding the allocation of at least $3,000,000 from the 
increase provided for fiscal year 2010 to expand exchange 
programs and activities in the visual arts, performing arts, 
film, arts education, arts management, and cultural studies. 
The conferees intend that the funds for expanding arts programs 
and activities be awarded on a competitive and transparent 
basis in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations.
      The conferees direct that a proposal for the programmatic 
and geographic distribution of available resources (including 
unobligated balances and recoveries) be submitted through the 
normal reprogramming process not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act.
      The conference agreement provides $8,000,000 for the One-
Time Competitive Grants Program. The conferees endorse the 
Senate Report directive for the Secretary of State to submit a 
report on these exchanges not later than September 1, 2010. The 
conferees also endorse language in the House and Senate Reports 
regarding this competitively awarded grants program.
      The conferees are concerned with the insufficient 
resources and lack of adequate oversight for youth programs as 
addressed in OIG Report Number ISP-I-10-16. The conferees 
direct the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and 
Cultural Affairs to implement the recommendations contained in 
the report and to consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
on the restructuring of the youth exchanges oversight processes 
to effectively conduct and monitor such exchanges.

                       REPRESENTATION ALLOWANCES

      The conference agreement provides $8,175,000 for 
Representation Allowances, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit, on 
a semi-annual basis, reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the allotment and expenditure of 
representation allowances. The House Report directed such 
report be submitted on a quarterly basis.

              PROTECTION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AND OFFICIALS

      The conference agreement provides $28,000,000 for 
Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials, which is $500,000 
below the House and $841,000 above the Senate, of which 
$25,600,000 is for the Extraordinary Protection of Foreign 
Missions and Officials in New York program and $2,400,000 is 
for the Extraordinary Protection of Foreign Missions and 
Officials Elsewhere in the United States program.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement included 
under this heading in the House Report on the amount of claims 
submitted and the level of unobligated funds remaining to pay 
such claims, which shall be submitted not later than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act, and every six months thereafter 
through September 30, 2010.

            EMBASSY SECURITY, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE

      The conference agreement provides $1,724,150,000 for 
Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance, which is the 
same as the House and Senate, of which $847,300,000 is for 
priority worldwide security upgrades, acquisition, and 
construction and $876,850,000 is for other operations, 
maintenance and construction.
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, requiring the Secretary of State 
to submit to the Committees on Appropriations a spending plan 
for the proposed allocation of funds made available under this 
heading, and the actual and anticipated proceeds of sales for 
all projects in fiscal year 2010. The conferees also endorse 
language in the House Report requiring that the spending plan 
include a list of all properties disposed of, or in the process 
of disposal, along with the associated actual or anticipated 
proceeds of sale.
      The conferees endorse language and funding directives in 
the Senate Report regarding soft targets.

           EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR SERVICE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $10,000,000 for 
Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, which is 
the same as the House and Senate.

                    BUYING POWER MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $8,500,000 for the 
Buying Power Maintenance Account to manage exchange rate losses 
in the cost of Department of State operations overseas, which 
is $1,000,000 above the House and $1,500,000 below the Senate.

                   REPATRIATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $1,450,000 for the 
Repatriation Loans Program Account, which is the same as the 
House and Senate, of which $739,000 is for the Direct Loans 
Subsidy and $711,000 is for Administrative Expenses.

              PAYMENT TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE IN TAIWAN

      The conference agreement provides $21,174,000 for Payment 
to the American Institute in Taiwan, which is the same as the 
House and Senate.

     PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

      The conference agreement provides $158,900,000 for 
Payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
which is the same as the House and Senate.

                      International Organizations

              CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $1,682,500,000 for 
Contributions to International Organizations, which is 
$14,500,000 below the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
the Secretary of State to notify the Committees on 
Appropriations 15 days prior to any non-offset increase in the 
United Nations (UN) budget, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement does not include a Senate 
provision directing the Secretary of State to prioritize 
synchronization payments to international organizations that 
are important to the security interests of the United States. 
However, the conferees endorse language in the House Report 
requiring a report on the status of United States deferred 
payments to international organizations. The conferees also 
endorse language in the Senate Report concerning the 
Organization of American States.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that any 
payment of arrearages under this heading shall be directed 
toward activities that are mutually agreed upon between the 
United States and the respective international organization, as 
proposed by the Senate and similar to that proposed by the 
House.
      The conferees expect the Department of State to submit a 
report on the voting practices of UN member states and provide 
a new report to the Committees on Appropriations on resolutions 
adopted in the UN Human Rights Council, as outlined in section 
7052 of this Act.

        CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement provides $2,125,000,000 for 
Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities, which 
is the same as the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision extending 
availability of 15 percent of funding until September 30, 2011, 
as proposed by the House and similar to that proposed by the 
Senate. The conferees include language similar to the Omnibus 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) providing that the 
Committees on Appropriations be notified of the estimated cost 
and length of peacekeeping missions and that the UN should take 
appropriate measures to hold accountable employees, contractor 
personnel, or peacekeeping forces who engage in certain 
wrongful or illegal acts, including prosecution in their home 
country.
      The conferees support the UN Office of Internal Oversight 
Services (OIOS) to identify waste, fraud and abuse, including 
sexual abuse in peacekeeping operations, and to recommend 
corrective action and reform. The conferees direct the 
Department of State to work to ensure that the OIOS has 
sufficient resources to carry out its mandate, including 
through the presence of resident auditors, and to request an 
annual performance report by the OIOS detailing its budget and 
activities.

                       International Commissions

      The conference agreement provides funding to fully meet 
United States treaty obligations to International Commissions 
in fiscal year 2010.

 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $33,000,000 for the 
Salaries and Expenses account of the International Boundary and 
Water Commission, United States and Mexico (IBWC), which is the 
same as the House and Senate.

                              CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement provides $43,250,000 for 
Construction, which is the same as the House and Senate. Funds 
made available under this heading are to be allocated according 
to the following table, subject to the provisions of section 
7019 of this Act:

                           IBWC--CONSTRUCTION
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                       Project/activity                        authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Water Quality Program........................................      6,750
    Nogales International Outfall Interceptor................        750
    Secondary Treatment of Tijuana Sewage....................      6,000
Water Quantity Program.......................................     29,800
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Colorado River Boundary & Capacity Preservation..........        400
    Reconstruction of the American Canal.....................     3,000
    Rio Grande Flood Control System Rehabilitation--Texas....     21,400
    Safety of Dams Rehabilitation............................      5,000
Resource & Asset Management Program..........................      6,700
                                                              ----------
        Total--IBWC--Construction............................    43,250
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

      The conferees endorse the requirement in the House Report 
concerning submission of a consolidated spending plan for funds 
appropriated for fiscal years 2009 and 2010, not later than 45 
days after enactment of this Act, and a follow-up report by 
September 30, 2010.

              AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS

      The conference agreement provides $12,608,000 for 
American Sections, International Commissions, which is the same 
as the House and Senate. Funds made available under this 
heading are to be allocated according to the following table, 
subject to the provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

              AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                          Commission                           authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Joint Commission--United States and Canada.....      8,000
International Boundary Commission, United States and Canada..      2,359
Border Environment Cooperation Commission....................      2,249
                                                              ----------
    Total--American Sections.................................     12,608
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS

      The conference agreement provides $53,976,000 for the 
International Fisheries Commissions, which is $5,400,000 above 
the House and $5,000,000 above the Senate.
      Funds made available under this heading are to be 
allocated according to the following table, subject to the 
provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

                   INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                          Commission                           authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Great Lakes Fishery Commission...............................     28,200
    Water Quality Improvements and Lamprey Control...........      6,500
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission......................      1,800
Pacific Salmon Commission....................................      3,250
Pacific Salmon Treaty Commitment.............................     15,000
International Pacific Halibut Commission.....................      3,250
  Other Marine Conservation Organizations:
    International Whaling Commission.........................        182
    North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission.................        187
    International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic        270
     Tunas...................................................
    Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization ...............        355
    Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine              160
     Living Resources .......................................
    North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization .........         55
    International Council for the Exploration of the Sea ....        280
    North Pacific Marine Science Organization ...............        127
    International Sea Turtle Conservation ...................        170
    Antarctic Treaty ........................................         50
    Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission ........        500
    Expenses of the United States Commissioners .............        140
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal--Other Marine Conservation Organizations....      2,476
                                                              ----------
            Total--International Fisheries Commissions.......    53,976
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

      The conference agreement includes $6,500,000 within the 
amount provided for the Great Lakes Fishery Commission for 
continued lamprey control, and to expand invasive species 
control, native species and habitat restoration, and water 
quality improvements in the Lake Champlain Basin. The conferees 
intend these funds to be used to accelerate implementation of a 
long-term management plan for Lake Champlain.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $733,788,000 for the 
International Broadcasting Operations (IBO) activities of the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), which is the same as the 
House and $15,960,000 above the Senate. The conference 
agreement includes increased funding to support transmission 
and Internet enhancements to reach audiences in Iran, Pakistan, 
and Afghanistan; the BBG Foreign Service Officer comparability 
pay costs; and a transfer to the Broadcasting Capital 
Improvements account to fully support critical capital 
maintenance and equipment.
      Funds made available under this heading are to be 
allocated according to the following table, subject to the 
provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                       Program/Activity                        authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  International Broadcasting Operations:
    Voice of America (VOA)...................................    204,690
    Radio and TV Marti.......................................     30,474
    Engineering and Technical Services.......................    191,256
    Agency Direction.........................................     27,247
    International Broadcasting Bureau Management and Support.     39,809
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal, IBO........................................    493,476
  Independent Grantee Organizations:
    Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty..........................     91,063
    Radio Free Asia (RFA)....................................     36,648
    Middle East Broadcasting Networks........................    112,601
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal, Independent Grantee Organizations..........    240,312
                                                              ----------
            Total, IBO.......................................    733,788
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conference agreement provides $30,474,000 for Radio 
and TV Marti, of which not more than $5,500,000 may be made 
available for non-salary and benefits expenses for TV Marti. 
The BBG shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations within 
90 days of enactment of this Act a multi-year strategic plan 
for broadcasting to Cuba that reflects the following: (1) an 
analysis of the current situation in Cuba and an allocation of 
resources that is consistent with the relative priority of 
broadcasting to Cuba as determined by the annual Language 
Service Review and other factors, including input from the 
Secretary of State on the relative United States interest of 
broadcasting to Cuba; (2) the estimated size of the audiences 
in Cuba for Radio and TV Marti, and the sources and relative 
reliability of the data on which such estimates are based; (3) 
the annual operating cost (and total cost over the life of the 
contract) of--any and all--types of TV transmission and the 
effectiveness of each in increasing such audience size; (4) the 
principal obstacles to increasing such audience size; (5) an 
analysis of other options for disseminating news and 
information to Cuba including DVDs, the Internet, and cell 
phones and other handheld electronic devices and a report on 
the cost effectiveness of each; and (6) an analysis of the 
program efficiencies and effectiveness that can be achieved 
through shared resources and cost saving opportunities in radio 
and television production between Radio and TV Marti and the 
Voice of America. Within 90 days of the submission of the 
strategic plan outlined above, the Comptroller General of the 
General Accountability Office (GAO) shall conduct an assessment 
of the strategic plan and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations its analysis of the data on which the plan is 
based and the plan's recommendations.
      The conferees endorse language in the House Report 
regarding the maintenance of VOA language services supported in 
fiscal year 2009, funding for VOA English, and the rejection of 
proposals to end certain VOA language broadcasts and programs.
      The conferees endorse language in the House and Senate 
Reports regarding the maintenance of the VOA and RFA Tibetan 
broadcasts at the fiscal year 2009 surge levels.
      The conferees concur with the program emphases placed in 
the House and Senate Reports on Radio Farda, including 
transmission and Internet enhancements to reach audiences in 
Iran, and Radio Free Iraq. The conferees endorse the funding 
priority in the Senate Report concerning Pashto and Dari 
broadcasts targeted toward Afghanistan and northwest Pakistan.
      The conferees note the GAO recommends that as the 
Administration develops a new comprehensive communication 
strategy, Federal agencies, including the BBG, should identify 
and link key agency-level programs, goals, and performance 
measurements to the strategy. The conferees direct that not 
later than 60 days after the new strategy is issued, the BBG 
report to the Committees on Appropriations on the linkages 
between the BBG's strategic plan and performance measurement 
system and the new strategy; BBG's participation in inter-
agency activities related to the implementation of the 
strategy; and which national communication goals the BBG 
believes it can support under its mandate and strategic plan 
and those goals the BBG considers inconsistent and therefore 
cannot support.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
the BBG to report to the Committees on Appropriations within 45 
days after enactment of this Act on several matters relating to 
management and editorial controls and to adherence to the 
relevant journalistic code of ethics, which is similar to that 
proposed by the House in section 7006. The conference agreement 
also requires the BBG to notify the Committees on 
Appropriations within 15 days of any determination by the Board 
that any of its broadcast entities was found to be in violation 
of the aforementioned principles, standards, or journalistic 
code of ethics, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement also includes a provision, 
section 7071(f)(2), that provides up to $8,000,000 to maintain 
VOA and RFA broadcasts to North Korea at the fiscal year 2009 
levels.
      The conference agreement includes a new provision 
extending through fiscal year 2010 the personal service 
contract authority of Section 504(c) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228).

                   BROADCASTING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

      The conference agreement provides $12,622,000 for 
Broadcasting Capital Improvements, which is $40,000 below the 
House and the same as the Senate.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

      The conference agreement provides $19,000,000 for The 
Asia Foundation, which is the same as the House and Senate.

                    United States Institute of Peace

      The conference agreement provides $49,220,000 for the 
United States Institute of Peace (USIP), which is the same as 
the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes up to $15,000,000 of 
funds made available under this heading to continue 
construction of the USIP headquarters. The conferees expect 
that any further USIP construction requirements will be 
financed with private funds and do not intend for program funds 
to be reprogrammed for construction or construction-related 
activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

      The conference agreement provides $875,000 for the Center 
for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund, which is the 
same as the House and Senate.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

      The conference agreement provides $500,000 for the 
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program, which is the same as 
the House and Senate.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

      The conference agreement provides $375,000 for the 
Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, which is the same as the 
House and Senate.

                            East-West Center

      The conference agreement provides $23,000,000 for the 
East-West Center, which is $23,000,000 above the House and 
$1,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conferees endorse the Senate Report recommendation 
that up to $2,500,000 be made available for infrastructure 
improvements, and be matched by private contributions.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

      The conference agreement provides $118,000,000 for the 
National Endowment for Democracy (NED), which is $18,000,000 
above the House and $2,000,000 below the Senate.
      Of the total, the conferees direct that $100,000,000 
shall be allocated in the traditional and customary manner, as 
in prior years, to include the core institutes, and that 
$18,000,000 shall be for other democracy, human rights, and 
rule of law programs, including support to promote democracy 
and human rights in North Korea.
      Certain authorities, definitions, and notifications 
regarding the promotion of democracy abroad are included under 
section 7034 of this Act.
      The conference agreement provides $250,000 for assistance 
related to Tibet, and the conferees endorse House and Senate 
Report language on Tibet.
      The conference agreement requires the President of NED to 
provide a report on the proposed uses of funds on a regional 
and country basis not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, in lieu of the spending and financial plan reporting 
requirements as proposed by the House and Senate. The report 
should include programmatic goals for each country and region, 
and how the planned use of funds will meet such goals. The 
conferees direct NED to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations in advance of any significant deviation from the 
plans outlined in such report.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $635,000 for salaries 
and expenses of the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $4,300,000 for salaries 
and expenses of the United States Commission on International 
Religious Freedom, which is the same as the House and Senate. 
The conference agreement includes a provision to increase the 
annual cap on consulting fees to $250,000 in order to procure 
the technical and language expertise that is required to 
complete special projects undertaken by the Commission in 
fiscal years 2009 and 2010.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $2,610,000 for salaries 
and expenses of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in 
Europe, which is the same as the House and Senate.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $2,000,000 for salaries 
and expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on the 
People's Republic of China, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $3,500,000 for salaries 
and expenses of the United States-China Economic and Security 
Review Commission, which is the same as the House and Senate, 
and includes certain technical modifications, as proposed by 
the Senate.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $1,388,800,000 for 
Operating Expenses, which is the same as the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement provides funding to support the 
hiring of an estimated 300 additional USAID Foreign Service 
Officers under the Development Leadership Initiative (DLI). The 
conference agreement includes a provision requiring the USAID 
Administrator to submit a strategy for projected personnel 
requirements over the next three fiscal years, similar to that 
proposed by the Senate. This strategy should describe the 
resources required for hiring, training, and deploying new 
personnel to domestic and overseas positions, including 
resources necessary for office and housing facilities. 
Concurrent with the submission of this strategy, the USAID 
Administrator is directed to submit a report describing the 
hiring, training, and deploying of new staff since the DLI 
began in fiscal year 2008, including resources expended for 
such purposes to date. This report should be updated on a semi-
annual basis. The conferees intend that one of the outcomes of 
the personnel expansion at USAID will be increased oversight of 
programs and activities.
      The conferees are aware of concerns with civilian 
capacity necessary to effectively administer programs in 
Pakistan and Afghanistan and have provided funds in this Act 
and prior Acts to support a civilian surge. The conferees 
direct the USAID Administrator to provide a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on a semi-annual basis that 
describes the USAID workforce in both countries, including 
geographical distribution, skill sets, and training, as well as 
the physical space and capacity to absorb additional personnel.
      The conferees believe that USAID's increased reliance on 
sole source contract awards, indefinite quantity contracts, and 
large umbrella awards undermines competitive processes, 
inhibits the participation of small organizations with niche 
expertise, limits creative and innovative approaches to 
programming, and is neither cost effective nor consistent with 
sustainable development. The conferees endorse the notification 
requirements in the House Report and the reporting requirement 
in the Senate Report, and require the USAID Administrator to 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations on steps that 
will be taken to reduce reliance on these mechanisms in the 
future and increase support for building capacity of local 
organizations and institutions, including the training that 
will be provided to new personnel hired under the DLI.
      The conferees endorse the small minority-owned and 
disadvantaged business enterprises reporting requirement, as 
proposed in the House Report.
      The conference agreement provides up to $1,000,000 for 
special compensation for LES in section 7059(n), as proposed by 
the Senate, and requires the USAID Administrator to consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations on proposed guidelines 
for special compensation of these employees.
      Implementation of USAID's Partner Vetting System is 
addressed in section 7034(o) of this Act.

                   CIVILIAN STABILIZATION INITIATIVE

      The conference agreement provides a total of $150,000,000 
to continue to stand up a capacity for the Department of State, 
USAID, and other relevant civilian agencies to respond to post-
conflict stabilization and reconstruction challenges, which is 
$5,000,000 below the House and the same as the Senate. Within 
the amounts provided in this Act, $30,000,000 is included under 
this heading, as proposed by the House, and $120,000,000 is 
included under a similar heading in title I for this purpose.
      Funds provided under this heading are intended to support 
costs associated with implementation of the Civilian Deployment 
Center; operational costs of the Office of Civilian Response; 
relevant USAID personnel salaries, expenses and training; and 
some deployment costs. The conferees direct that none of the 
funds provided under this heading may be used to establish a 
Reserve Corps component of the Civilian Response Corps. USAID 
and the Department of State shall jointly consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds 
made available under this heading.
      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the House requiring the USAID Administrator and the Secretary 
of State to submit a coordinated joint spending plan for funds 
available under this heading and the CSI heading in title I.

                        CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND

      The conference agreement provides $185,000,000 for 
Capital Investment Fund, which is the same as the House and 
$28,000,000 below the Senate, of which up to $134,500,000 is 
provided for implementation of the Capital Security Cost-
Sharing Program. The conferees endorse the reporting 
requirement, as proposed in the House Report.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $46,500,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General, which is the same as the House and 
Senate. The conferees continue to believe that programs funded 
through emergency appropriations should be regularized into the 
annual budget process.
      The conferees direct the USAID Inspector General to 
continue to expand oversight activities of United States 
Government assistance programs in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The 
conferees understand that by the end of fiscal year 2010, the 
USAID Inspector General will have a fully staffed office in 
Islamabad that will consist of seven auditors, two 
investigators, and five Foreign Service National auditors/
investigators, and a fully staffed office in Kabul that will 
consist of three auditors and two investigators. The Office of 
Inspector General is directed to ensure that efforts are de-
conflicted from the oversight plans of other agencies and to 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the joint 
oversight plan in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In addition, the 
Office of Inspector General is directed to inform the 
Committees on Appropriations if gaps in oversight are 
identified.
      The conferees endorse House Report language directing the 
Office of Inspector General to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations on a regular and on-going basis.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

      The conference agreement provides funding in this Act for 
certain sectors in the amounts allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

                                 SECTORS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                         Program                             authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Food Security and Agricultural Development..............       1,169,833
Water...................................................         315,000
Basic Education.........................................         925,000
Higher Education........................................         200,000
Microenterprise and Microfinance........................         265,000
Climate Change and Environment..........................       1,257,200
Adaptation..............................................         122,750
Clean Energy............................................         108,500
Sustainable Landscapes..................................          74,450
Biodiversity............................................        205,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

                    GLOBAL HEALTH AND CHILD SURVIVAL

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $7,779,000,000 for 
Global Health and Child Survival (GHCS), which is $15,000,000 
below the House and $6,000,000 above the Senate. Of the total, 
$2,420,000,000 is apportioned directly to USAID and 
$5,359,000,000 is apportioned directly to the Office of the 
United States Global AIDS Coordinator (OGAC) at the Department 
of State. Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

                    GLOBAL HEALTH AND CHILD SURVIVAL
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                    Programs/accounts                        authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Child Survival and Maternal Health (USAID)..............         549,000
    Iodine deficiency disorder..........................           2,000
    Polio...............................................          32,000
    The GAVI Alliance...................................          78,000
    Micronutrients......................................          33,000
        Vitamin A.......................................        [23,000]
Vulnerable Children (USAID).............................          15,000
    Blind children......................................           2,000
HIV/AIDS (USAID)........................................         350,000
    Microbicides........................................          45,000
HIV/AIDS (Department of State)..........................       5,359,000
    Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and             750,000
     Malaria............................................
    Nutritional support.................................         130,000
    TB/HIV co-infection.................................         160,000
    UNAIDS..............................................          43,000
Family Planning/Reproductive Health (USAID).............         525,000
Other Infectious Diseases (USAID).......................         981,000
    Pandemic preparedness and response..................         106,000
    Malaria.............................................         585,000
    Tuberculosis........................................         225,000
    Global Tuberculosis Drug Facility...................        [15,000]
    Neglected Tropical Diseases.........................          65,000
            Total--GHCS.................................      7,779,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory total.

      The conference agreement includes language that allows 
funding provided under this heading to be used for programs to 
address neglected tropical diseases, as proposed by the Senate; 
language on the determination related to organizations that 
have been found to support or participate in the management of 
a program of coercive abortion, as proposed by the Senate; and 
language on the procurement of condoms, similar to that 
proposed by the House.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement on global 
health program effectiveness, similar to that proposed by the 
House. The report should include an analysis of key global 
health challenges, a review of the interventions that have been 
found to have the greatest impact in addressing these 
challenges, and opportunities for the United States to increase 
support for these interventions in order to significantly 
reduce mortality and morbidity. The report should pay special 
attention to those issues that have not received adequate 
support in the past, including maternal health which is 
directly related to child survival; the role that the United 
States could play in promoting best practices; and the role of 
other donor countries in expanding access to these critical 
interventions. The conferees direct the Secretary of State to 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to, and 
during, the development of this report.
      The conferees endorse the HIV/AIDS prevention reporting 
requirement, as proposed by the House, which should include a 
description of HIV/AIDS prevention interventions that could be 
components of a United States global HIV/AIDS strategy and 
their effectiveness; an analysis of how these interventions 
should be implemented in order to address key drivers of the 
epidemic; the goals of the United States prevention strategy 
and how progress toward these goals will be measured; and a 
review of how the United States will collaborate with other 
bilateral and multilateral donors to reduce duplication. This 
report should include country-by-country prevention 
interventions and goals to ensure that unique conditions on the 
ground are taken into account.
      The conferees direct OGAC to include, in future quarterly 
Summary Financial Status Reports of the global AIDS program, 
data on outlays as a percentage of the total amount of 
appropriated funds available for each country and Federal 
agency. Third quarter reports shall include a brief explanation 
of the factors contributing to countries falling behind target 
obligation and outlay rates.
      The conferees are aware of the fiscal year 2010 
Coordinated Audit Plan for global AIDS programs that has been 
developed by the relevant Inspectors General and are concerned 
that the Office of Inspector General at the Department of 
Health and Human Services does not plan to audit global AIDS 
funds transferred to the agency in the coming year. The OGAC 
Director is to report to the Committees on Appropriations on 
steps taken by OGAC to ensure that all program funds, including 
funds transferred to other agencies, are audited on a regular 
basis.
      The conferees provide $750,000,000 for the Global Fund to 
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in this Act. The conferees 
remain committed to supporting a performance-based, results-
oriented, multilateral financing instrument to combat these 
diseases. The conferees support efforts by the ``Working Group 
to Manage the Tension between Demand and Supply in a Resource 
Constrained Environment'' to ensure that Global Fund resources 
are used efficiently and effectively. The Committees on 
Appropriations expect to be updated by OGAC on further efforts 
of this group. The conferees endorse the Global Fund reporting 
requirement, as proposed by the House.
      The conferees endorse the research and development 
reporting requirement, as proposed by the Senate, which should 
include a discussion of microbicides research and development 
and opportunities for expanded research and development related 
to child immunizations.
      The conference agreement includes $106,000,000 for 
pandemic preparedness and response activities to support H1N1 
influenza and avian influenza surveillance, immunization 
delivery, and treatment programs internationally. The conferees 
note that the budget request did not include specific funding 
to address the H1N1 influenza outbreak and continue to support 
the transfer authority provided in the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) to combat an H1N1 
influenza pandemic, if the President determines that the human-
to-human transmission of the virus is virulent, efficient and 
sustained, severe, spreading internationally to multiple 
regions, and has been designated by the World Health 
Organization to be at the highest phase of Global Influenza 
Pandemic Alert. The conferees also continue to support the use 
of funds provided in title VIII of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) to support USAID's 
international response to H1N1 influenza.
      The conferees support the use of family planning/
reproductive health funds for programs in areas where 
population growth exacerbates human vulnerability to the 
impacts of climate change, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
proposed by the House and Senate regarding funds to monitor and 
provide oversight of certain global health programs. However, 
the conferees direct that not to exceed $400,000, in addition 
to funds otherwise available for such purposes, may be used to 
monitor and provide oversight of child survival, maternal and 
family planning/reproductive health, and infectious disease 
programs.

                         DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $2,520,000,000 for 
Development Assistance (DA), which is $30,000,000 above the 
House and $47,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
concerning the availability of funds related to water and 
microenterprise/microfinance programs, as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement includes language requiring 
the relevant USAID bureaus and offices that support cross-
cutting development programs, including but not limited to 
water, food security, and democracy and governance, to 
coordinate such programs on a regular basis, similar to that 
proposed by the Senate.
Agriculture and Food Security
      The conference agreement provides a total of 
$1,169,833,000 for agricultural development and food security 
programs, of which $31,500,000 is for Collaborative Research 
Support Programs.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
Administrator, to submit a strategy for achieving food security 
and agricultural development program goals, as proposed by the 
House and Senate. The conferees expect this strategy to take 
into account the technical capacities and capabilities of other 
United States Government agencies. However, the conferees 
intend that the agencies funded in this Act should serve as the 
primary conduits for programmatic implementation. In cases 
where funding is transferred to other agencies, the conferees 
direct the Department of State to ensure that these funds are 
properly audited as directed in section 7009(e) of this Act and 
that oversight of these programs is conducted in a manner 
consistent with Department of State and USAID requirements.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
authorizing the use of funds under this heading for local and 
regional purchase, as proposed by the Senate. Local and 
regional purchase is addressed under the International Disaster 
Assistance heading.
      The conferees provide not less than $30,000,000 for dairy 
development and livestock programs, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement provides not less than 
$35,000,000 for agricultural research programs, including plant 
and biotechnology.
      The conference agreement provides $10,000,000 as a United 
States contribution to the endowment of the Global Crop 
Diversity Trust.
      The conference agreement provides funding for a 
multilateral food security initiative. The Committees on 
Appropriations shall be consulted on the proposed uses prior to 
the obligation of these funds.
      The conference agreement includes language related to the 
exercise of notwithstanding authority, as proposed by the 
Senate, and the Secretary of State is directed to provide the 
Committees on Appropriations a written justification within 
five days when such authority is used.
Economic Development
      Cooperative Development Program.--The conference 
agreement provides $10,000,000 for this program within USAID's 
Office of Private and Voluntary Cooperation, as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Gender Integration.--The conferees endorse the reporting 
requirement proposed in the House Report related to the 
integration of gender considerations into agriculture and 
economic development programs.
      Microfinance and Microenterprise Programs.--The conferees 
note that while USAID has increased its microenterprise 
activities in Africa in recent years, there has been relatively 
small investment in microfinance in Africa. The conferees 
direct the USAID Administrator to consult with the Committees 
on Appropriations on a strategy to increase funding for this 
purpose. The conferees further direct that up to 25 percent of 
funding be made available to build the institutional and human 
capacity of microfinance institutions.
      The conferees direct that at least 50 percent of funds 
provided for microfinance and microenterprise programs be for 
grants and cooperative agreements to not-for-profit networks, 
practitioner institutions, and nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs), and direct that USAID's Office of Microenterprise 
Development, in consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations, develop a strategy to meet this mandate. This 
strategy shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, and shall 
include a description of USAID's strategy to increase outreach 
to women, and the poor and very poor who are currently without 
access to financial services.
      Oversight.--The conference agreement does not include a 
provision regarding funds to monitor certain programs for 
children and victims of war, as proposed by the House and 
Senate. However, the conferees direct that not to exceed 
$60,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used to monitor and provide oversight of 
programs for displaced and orphaned children and victims of 
war.
      Reporting Requirements.--The conferees endorse the 
reporting requirements on program review and impact evaluation 
processes, as proposed by the Senate, except that such report 
should be provided to the relevant appropriations and foreign 
affairs committees of the House and Senate.
      The conferees endorse the small and medium enterprises 
reporting requirement, as proposed by the Senate.
      The contracting reporting requirement proposed by the 
Senate is addressed under the USAID Operating Expenses heading.
      Safe Water.--The conference agreement provides not less 
than $315,000,000 for water and sanitation supply projects 
pursuant to the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-121), including safe water for communities 
harmed by oil contamination in the northeastern region of 
Ecuador. The conferees endorse language in the House and Senate 
Reports on safe water and water management programs.
      Trade Capacity Building.--The conference agreement 
provides $20,000,000 for trade capacity building programs 
related to the Central America Free Trade Agreement, and 
$16,000,000 for United States-Peru Free Trade Agreement labor 
law capacity building and for implementation of the 
environmental chapter of such agreement, similar to that 
proposed by the House.
      University Programs.--The conferees direct the USAID 
Administrator to submit the report on the status of activities 
undertaken with American institutions of higher education, as 
proposed in the House Report.
      War Victims and Victims of Torture.--The conference 
agreement provides $14,000,000 for the Patrick Leahy War 
Victims Fund and $13,000,000 for programs and activities that 
address the needs of victims of torture.
      Women's Leadership Training.--The conference agreement 
provides $20,000,000 for women's leadership capacity building 
programs, as proposed by the House.
Education
      Basic Education.--The conference agreement provides a 
total of $925,000,000 for basic education programs in this Act, 
of which $365,000,000 is provided under this heading. The 
conferees are concerned with the availability of education for 
children who are refugees or internally displaced, and 
encourage USAID to use a portion of basic education funds for 
programs in such settings. The conferees intend that schools 
supported with basic education funds appropriated in this Act 
should, when practicable, serve as ``Communities of Learning'' 
and should be a focal point for development programs, as 
proposed by the House. USAID shall ensure that pilot programs 
implemented pursuant to section 664 of division J of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161) 
include ``Communities of Learning'' in the five year strategic 
plans, where appropriate.
      Higher Education.--The conference agreement provides not 
less than $200,000,000 for higher education programs in this 
Act, of which not less than $25,000,000 shall be for such 
programs in Africa, as proposed by the Senate. The conferees 
believe that higher education partnerships between American and 
African institutions of higher education should be expanded and 
$15,000,000 is provided for this purpose, as proposed by the 
Senate, which shall be awarded in an open and competitive 
process in accordance with all applicable rules and 
regulations.
Climate Change and Environment
      Biodiversity.--The conference agreement includes a total 
of $205,000,000 in title III of this Act for biodiversity 
programs, particularly to protect forests, wildlife, and water 
ecosystems. Of this amount, not less than $25,000,000 is for 
USAID's conservation programs in the Amazon Basin, of which 
$15,000,000 is for the Initiative for Conservation in the 
Andean Amazon and $10,000,000 is for such activities in Brazil. 
In addition, $20,500,000 is for the Congo Basin Forest 
Partnership; $7,500,000 is for the Coral Triangle Initiative; 
$5,000,000 is for international programs of the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service, particularly in central Africa; 
$2,000,000 is for the Department of State's Bureau of Oceans 
and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs and 
USAID to support inter-agency outreach and capacity building 
programs and activities in developing countries related to 
implementation and enforcement of section 8204 of the Food, 
Conservation, and Energy Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-246); and 
$1,000,000 is for conservation and related programs of the 
Department of Interior in the Maya Biosphere Reserve in 
Guatemala. The conferees direct USAID to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations on a multi-year strategy for 
forest and archeological conservation in the Peten region of 
Guatemala. The conferees endorse language in the Senate Report 
on the protection of orangutan habitat in Borneo and Sumatra, 
and support wildlife conservation in Southern Sudan and Niger. 
In addition, the conferees recommend that USAID work with the 
United States National Park Service and the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration to protect forests, wildlife, 
and water ecosystems in developing countries. The conferees 
direct the agencies administering these funds to consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of 
funds.
      Climate Change.--The conference agreement includes a 
total of $1,257,200,000 for climate change programs in this 
Act, of which $108,500,000 is for clean energy, $74,450,000 is 
for sustainable landscapes, and $122,750,000 is for adaptation 
programs.
      The conferees intend that funds for clean energy programs 
will be used only to support programs that promote the 
sustainable use of renewable energy technologies and energy 
efficient end-use technologies, carbon sequestration, and 
carbon accounting. The primary objective of these programs 
should be to reduce, mitigate, and/or sequester emissions of 
greenhouse gases. The conferees direct that no funds shall be 
utilized for any nuclear, coal or other fossil fuel technology 
or production. The conferees intend that USAID's programs 
should complement the efforts undertaken by the Department of 
State's Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and 
Scientific Affairs as well as programs implemented through the 
Clean Technology Fund (CTF), the Strategic Climate Fund (SCF), 
and the Global Environment Facility.
      The conferees urge USAID to expand support in rural 
communities for small scale solar and other renewable energy 
technologies, which provide clean, healthier and more 
economically sustainable sources of energy than fossil fuels 
and help reduce migration to overpopulated urban areas.
      The conferees intend that funds for sustainable 
landscapes programs will be used to support activities to 
maximize climate change mitigation, including carbon removals 
and avoided emissions, through efforts to protect and preserve 
landscapes and ecosystems. These efforts should include 
programs that preserve tropical forests, abandoned lands, and 
other endangered landscapes. In addition, programs to build 
institutional capacity to measure and monitor greenhouse gas 
emissions and removal, and policy reforms including land 
tenure, should be supported. These programs should not 
duplicate similar efforts currently implemented through USAID's 
biodiversity programs.
      The conferees intend that a significant portion of 
funding provided for sustainable landscapes programs should be 
used to expand activities that reduce emissions from tropical 
forest destruction and degradation (commonly called REDD) in 
order to avoid the worst effects of global climate change. 
USAID should increase support for programs that assist 
developing countries in building their institutional and 
governance capacity to manage forest resources in a manner that 
demonstrates measurable, reportable and verifiable emissions 
reductions; develops strong forest governance laws; and 
improves law enforcement against illegal logging. These 
programs should be transparent and should respect the rights of 
indigenous and forest-dependent people, who should be consulted 
and included in the design and implementation of programs. The 
Department of State and USAID are directed to consult jointly 
with the Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days 
after enactment of this Act on the United States Government 
strategy related to REDD and the capacity of developing 
countries to implement these programs.
      The conferees intend that adaptation program funds will 
be used to ensure that on-going programs and projects are 
designed to be as resilient as possible to climate variability 
and change. This funding should be used to ensure that climate 
change factors are taken into account during program assessment 
and design and that any program modifications are included in 
final implementation.
Country Issues
      Bangladesh.--The conference agreement provides 
$66,271,000 for assistance for Bangladesh.
      Cambodia.--The conference agreement provides $19,000,000 
for assistance for Cambodia.
      Central Africa Regional.--The conference agreement 
provides $20,500,000 for assistance for programs in Central 
Africa.
      Countries of Central America.--The conferees are 
concerned with the lack of due process and a transparent 
judiciary in Nicaragua and Honduras. The conferees direct the 
Secretary of State to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
Act on the Department of State's efforts to effectuate due 
process with respect to claims against American companies in 
these countries.
      Guatemala.--The conference agreement provides up to 
$2,000,000, of the funds made available for assistance for 
Guatemala, for legal reform programs and gender-based violence 
programs, as proposed in the House Report.
      India.--The conference agreement provides $12,000,000 for 
assistance for India, including up to $2,000,000 for assistance 
for Tibetan refugee communities in India, Nepal and Bhutan, as 
proposed in the House Report.
      Indonesia.--The conference agreement provides $71,000,000 
for assistance for Indonesia.
      Kenya.--The conference agreement provides $76,885,000 for 
assistance for Kenya.
      Mexico.--The conference agreement provides $10,000,000 
for assistance for Mexico.
      Mongolia.--The conference agreement provides $7,500,000 
for assistance for Mongolia.
      People's Republic of China.--The conference agreement 
provides $12,000,000 to support democracy, rule of law, and 
environmental programs in China, which shall be awarded in an 
open and competitive process in accordance with all applicable 
rules and regulations, similar to that proposed in the Senate 
Report.
      Peru.--The conferees direct that $500,000, of the funds 
made available for assistance for Peru, shall be made available 
for continued forensic assistance for Peru where as many as 
15,000 persons are missing as a result of armed conflict, to be 
administered by the Department of State's Bureau of Democracy, 
Human Rights and Labor.
      Philippines.--The conference agreement provides 
$40,310,000 for assistance for the Philippines.
      Sri Lanka.--The conference agreement provides $9,900,000 
for assistance for Sri Lanka.
      Thailand.--The conference agreement provides $6,151,000 
for assistance for Thailand.
      Timor-Leste.--The conference agreement provides 
$20,200,000 for assistance for Timor-Leste.
      Uganda.--The conference agreement provides $70,650,000 
for assistance for Uganda. The conferees direct the Secretary 
of State to closely monitor preparations for the 2011 elections 
in Uganda, and to actively promote, in coordination with the 
European Union, Canada and other nations, the independence of 
the election commission; the need for an accurate and 
verifiable voter registry; the announcement and posting of 
results at the polling stations; the freedom of movement and 
assembly and a process free of intimidation; freedom of the 
media; and the security and protection of candidates. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act and every 120 days thereafter until 30 
days after the elections, detailing actions taken by the 
Government of Uganda to address these concerns.
      Vietnam.--The conference agreement provides $17,500,000 
for assistance for Vietnam, including for technical and other 
assistance to the Government of Vietnam for the purpose of 
locating and identifying Vietnamese persons missing since 1975, 
as proposed by the Senate.
      Yemen.--The conference agreement provides $35,000,000 for 
assistance for Yemen.

                   INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $845,000,000 for 
International Disaster Assistance, which is $15,000,000 above 
the House and $10,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conference agreement neither designates, nor assumes, 
a specific amount for food assistance from funds made available 
under this heading, as proposed by the House. However, the 
conferees understand that, as in previous years, a significant 
portion of the funds made available under this heading will 
support food assistance in fiscal year 2010 and will be in 
addition to the $1,169,833,000 designated in this Act for food 
security and agricultural development.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement on local 
and regional procurement of food assistance contained in the 
House Report, except the submission date shall be September 30, 
2010.

                         TRANSITION INITIATIVES

      The conference agreement provides $55,000,000 for 
Transition Initiatives, which is $45,000,000 below the House 
and $10,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision which 
allows for the transfer of up to $15,000,000 to this account 
upon a determination by the Secretary of State, as proposed by 
the Senate. The conference agreement does not include authority 
for a new Rapid Response Fund under this heading, as proposed 
by the House.

                          COMPLEX CRISES FUND

      The conference agreement provides $50,000,000 for the 
Complex Crises Fund (CCF), which is $50,000,000 above the House 
and $50,000,000 below the Senate. This new account provides 
greater flexibility to USAID to prevent or respond to emerging 
or unforeseen complex crises overseas, and is similar to the 
Emergency Crises Fund account proposed by the Senate. The CCF 
consolidates the budget requests for a Rapid Response Fund and 
a Stabilization Bridge Fund to provide greater efficiency and 
oversight by the Administration and the Congress of these 
activities.
      For the purposes of this account, a ``complex crisis'' 
shall mean a disaster or emergency, usually of long-term 
duration, that includes a combination of humanitarian, 
political and security dimensions which hinders the provision 
of external assistance.
      USAID and the Department of State should continue to 
establish and bolster crisis prevention and response 
capabilities in order to assume most, if not all, of the 
functions currently funded by the Department of Defense under 
section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163). USAID and the 
Departments of State and Defense shall continue to consult on 
the formulation and implementation of stabilization and 
security assistance, as appropriate, whether through the 
utilization of section 1207 or funds appropriated by this Act.

                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AUTHORITY

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $8,600,000 for the 
administrative expenses of the Development Credit Authority, 
which is the same as the House and Senate. In addition, 
$25,000,000 is provided by transfer for programs.

                         ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $6,337,000,000 for 
Economic Support Fund, which is $33,096,000 below the House and 
$33,000,000 below the Senate. Funds in this account shall be 
allocated according to the following table, subject to the 
provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

                          ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                     Country/Program                         authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Africa:
    Democratic Republic of the Congo....................          59,100
    Horn of Africa/Pan Sahel Program....................          10,000
    Liberia.............................................         153,000
    Sierra Leone........................................          18,000
        Special Court...................................           7,500
    Sudan...............................................         296,034
    Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Partnership..........           5,000
  East Asia and the Pacific:
    Burma...............................................          36,500
    Cambodia............................................          15,000
    Indonesia...........................................          65,000
    North Korea.........................................
        Democracy/Human Rights..........................           3,500
        Energy Assistance...............................               0
    Philippines.........................................          30,000
    Thailand............................................           2,500
    Tibet...............................................           7,400
    Timor-Leste.........................................           3,000
    Vietnam.............................................           3,000
  Europe and Eurasia:
    Cyprus..............................................          11,000
  Near East:
    Egypt...............................................         250,000
        Democracy.......................................          25,000
        Education.......................................          35,000
        Scholarships....................................        [10,000]
    Iraq................................................         382,500
        Marla Ruzicka Fund..............................           5,000
        Civilian Assistance Program.....................          50,000
        Democracy and Civil Society.....................         126,000
        Iraqi Women's Democracy.........................        [10,000]
        Ministerial Capacity Development................          50,000
        Iraqi Minorities................................          10,000
    Jordan..............................................         363,000
    Lebanon.............................................         109,000
        Scholarships....................................          12,000
        Forestry Conservation...........................             500
    Morocco.............................................           3,000
    Near East Regional Democracy........................          40,000
    Tunisia.............................................           2,000
    West Bank/Gaza......................................         400,400
    Yemen...............................................           5,000
    Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI)...........          65,000
        Scholarships....................................          10,000
    Middle East Regional Cooperation....................           5,000
    Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Partnership..........           6,000
  South and Central Asia:
    Afghanistan.........................................       2,037,000
        National Solidarity Program.....................         175,000
        Civilian Assistance Program.....................          15,000
        Afghan Women and Girls..........................         175,000
            Capacity Building for Women's NGOs..........        [20,000]
            Support for Women-led NGOs..................        [25,000]
    Nepal...............................................          27,000
        Civil Society Capacity Building.................           1,500
    Pakistan............................................       1,035,000
        Civilian Assistance Program.....................           5,000
  Western Hemisphere:
    Colombia............................................         209,790
    Cuba................................................          20,000
    Haiti...............................................         160,750
    Mexico..............................................          15,000
    Western Hemisphere Regional.........................          62,000
  Global Programs:
    Department of State--Office to Monitor and Combat             12,000
     Trafficking in Persons (G/TIP).....................
    Oceans and International Environmental and                   178,800
     Scientific Affairs.................................
        Civilian Science Research Initiative............           5,000
        World Bank Carbon Facility......................          10,000
        Climate Change programs.........................         135,500
    Reconciliation Programs.............................          16,000
    Title VIII Programs.................................           5,000
    Trade Capacity Building--Central America............          20,000
    Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)           4,500
    House Democracy Assistance Program..................           2,000
    Kimberley Process...................................           3,000
    Disability Programs.................................          5,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  subcategory or country total.

                                 Africa

      Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).--The conferees 
continue to be concerned with the health and safety of women 
and girls in the DRC, and the alarming incidence of rape and 
other gender-based violence in that country. The conferees 
direct that not less than $10,000,000 of the funds in this Act 
for assistance for the DRC be made available to address gender-
based violence, including for fistula repair and other 
assistance for victims, and training and support for health and 
law enforcement personnel. The conferees direct the Department 
of State, in consultation with USAID, to provide a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations that outlines a comprehensive 
strategy and budget to address gender-based violence in the 
DRC. The report should describe how United States Government 
efforts fit into multi-donor and host government strategies to 
address this issue. The Department shall consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to developing the strategy. 
The conferees endorse the reporting requirements on the 
exploitation of mineral resources, as proposed in the Senate 
Report, to include identifying the governments and companies 
that are involved in or profiting from such exploitation.
      Sudan.--The conferees direct the Department of State, in 
consultation with USAID, to prioritize programs in Southern 
Sudan that implement the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, 
including support for local governance, judicial strengthening 
and rule of law, law enforcement professionalism and commitment 
to human rights, anti-corruption, and community level 
reintegration programs.
      The conferees are concerned with reports of corruption 
within the Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS), and the 
conference agreement includes a provision, similar to that 
proposed by the Senate, requiring the Secretary of State, in 
determining amounts and types of assistance to provide to the 
GoSS, to consider whether such government is conducting regular 
audits of its financial accounts to ensure transparency and 
accountability of funds, including revenues from the extraction 
of oil, gas, and other natural resources, and is making such 
audits publicly available in a timely manner. The conferees 
believe such audits are necessary to prevent the misuse of 
funds, including United States assistance.
      The conferees direct the Department of State, in 
consultation with USAID, to provide a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations not later than 90 days after enactment of 
this Act, on the steps that will be taken by the GoSS to 
improve resource management and increase transparency and 
accountability of funds, including efforts by the United States 
Government to support this goal.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement on Sudan 
and the People's Republic of China, as proposed in the House 
Report.

                                  Asia

      Burma.--The conferees recognize that the failure of 
governance in Burma has resulted in severe humanitarian needs 
throughout the country that are further exacerbated by 
violations of internationally recognized human rights committed 
with impunity by the ruling junta. The conference agreement 
includes language, similar to that proposed by the House and 
Senate, and provides $36,500,000 for activities to address 
these needs, including income-generating activities, and to 
support ongoing democracy and humanitarian programs along the 
Burma-Thailand border. The Department of State is to consult on 
the uses of these funds, which are subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations. 
The conference agreement also requires that funds be used in a 
manner that is consistent with the principles and goals of the 
National League for Democracy in Burma.
      Cambodia.--The conferees intend that assistance should be 
increased for Cambodian NGOs involved in the promotion and 
protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, 
including core funding. The conferees direct the Secretary of 
State to fulfill the reporting requirement contained in the 
first proviso of section 7071(c)(1) of the Senate bill. The 
conference agreement includes language regarding a United 
States contribution to the Khmer Rouge Tribunal, as proposed by 
the Senate.
      North Korea.--The conference agreement provides 
$3,500,000 to promote democracy and human rights, as authorized 
by the North Korea Human Rights Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
333), as amended. Such programs may include appropriate 
educational and cultural exchange programs with North Korean 
participants, to the extent not otherwise prohibited by law.
      In addition, the conference agreement provides that 
assistance for countries in the North Asia region may be made 
available for similar activities relating to North Korea, 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations. The conferees note the importance 
of regional neighbors in encouraging reform in North Korea, and 
funds should be used to support their participation in 
furthering such change.
      The conference agreement includes language in section 
7071(f)(4) similar to that proposed by the House and Senate 
regarding restrictions on assistance for North Korea.
      The conference agreement includes language in section 
7071(f)(6) regarding the unsupervised distribution of food 
assistance, similar to that proposed by the Senate.
      Philippines.--The conferees endorse Senate Report 
language on the use of funds appropriated under this heading to 
support conflict resolution activities in Mindanao, and to 
expand judicial training programs.
      Thailand.--The conference agreement provides $2,500,000 
for conflict resolution and development programs in southern 
Thailand, as proposed by the Senate.
      Tibet.--The conference agreement provides $7,400,000 for 
programs implemented by NGOs which preserve cultural traditions 
and promote economic development and environmental conservation 
in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and other Tibetan communities, 
which is similar to that proposed by the House and Senate.
      Timor-Leste.--The conference agreement provides 
$3,000,000 for assistance for Timor-Leste, of which $1,000,000 
is for democracy programs and $2,000,000 is for higher 
education scholarships, which is similar to that proposed by 
the Senate.
      Vietnam.--The conference agreement provides not less than 
$3,000,000 for environmental remediation of dioxin contaminated 
sites and related health activities in Vietnam, including 
through Vietnamese institutions and organizations. The 
conferees direct the USAID Administrator to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds 
for these purposes.

                           Europe and Eurasia

      Cyprus.--The conferees endorse the language in the House 
and Senate Reports regarding assistance for Cyprus.

                               Near East

      Egypt.--The conferees direct that within the amount 
provided for project assistance for Egypt, not less than 
$25,000,000 shall be made available for democracy, governance, 
and human rights programs and not less than $35,000,000 shall 
be for education programs, of which $10,000,000 is for 
scholarships for Egyptian students with high financial need, 
including at American educational institutions and other 
institutions that promote tolerance, gender and social 
equality, and critical thinking. The requirements of section 
7034(m)(4) of this Act shall apply with respect to the 
provision of assistance to Egyptian NGOs. The conferees provide 
authority under section 7042(a)(2) of this Act to use funds 
under this heading to establish an endowment to further the 
mutual interests of the United States and Egypt.
      The conferees endorse the recommendations of the USAID 
Inspector General in Audit Report Number 6-263-10-001-P 
regarding democracy programs and activities in Egypt.
      Iraq.--The conferees endorse the budget request of 
$10,000,000 for the Iraqi women's democracy initiative, 
including for efforts to build professional networks between 
female business, government, and civil society leaders in Iraq 
with counterparts in countries in the region.
      The conference agreement provides that not less than 
$5,000,000 should be made available for the Marla Ruzicka Iraqi 
War Victims Fund. The conferees direct USAID to work with the 
Government of Iraq and Iraqi NGOs to develop a plan for ongoing 
Iraqi management and financial support of this program to 
assist innocent Iraqi victims of conflict after United States 
forces withdraw. A portion of these funds may be used for the 
development of and preparatory steps to implement such plan.
      The conference agreement continues prior year limitations 
on the use of funds in Iraq, including for permanent basing 
rights agreements between the United States and Iraq.
      The conference agreement provides $50,000,000 for USAID's 
Ministerial Capacity Development program, and the conferees 
believe that the Government of Iraq should assume full 
responsibility for support for such training and development 
programs in the future.
      The conferees direct that up to $10,000,000 of funds made 
available under this heading should be made available to 
continue programs and activities to assist minority populations 
in Iraq, including religious groups in the Nineveh Plains 
region.
      The Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act detailing the unique needs of minority 
populations in Iraq, including security requirements, 
organizations that have received funding from the Department of 
State and USAID for programs to assist such populations, and 
the total amount of funds provided for such purposes.
      The conferees request the Department of State and USAID 
to consult jointly with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
decision-making processes utilized in comparing and assessing 
the benefits of programs conducted in Iraq with the security 
costs associated with such programs.
      Lebanon.--The conference agreement provides $12,000,000 
for scholarships for students in Lebanon with high financial 
need, including at American educational institutions and other 
institutions that promote tolerance, gender and social 
equality, and critical thinking.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
concerning the United States Forest Service (USFS). However, 
the conferees direct that not less than $500,000 shall be made 
available to the USFS for forest and wildlife conservation 
programs in Lebanon, as proposed in the Senate Report.
      Tunisia.--The conference agreement provides $2,000,000 
for assistance for Tunisia for programs and activities in 
southern Tunisia and to promote respect for human rights, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      West Bank and Gaza.--The conference agreement directs 
that up to $2,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading 
be used to augment funding for administrative expenses of USAID 
to facilitate program administration, as proposed by the House 
and Senate. The conference agreement further provides that not 
more than $150,000,000 may be used for cash transfer 
assistance, as requested and proposed by the House. The 
conferees endorse the reporting requirement related to efforts 
to expand educational and exchange opportunities for 
Palestinian students, as proposed by the House, including for 
students from Gaza.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of State to provide a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 180 
days after enactment of this Act on international 
participation, including by Arab states, in the economic 
development of the West Bank and support for the Palestinian 
Authority, similar to that proposed by the House. This report 
may be submitted in classified form, if necessary.
      The conferees note that funding directives for 
reconciliation programs and for other programs in the West Bank 
and Gaza specifically noted in the conference agreement shall 
not be considered as part of the funding ceiling established 
under this heading.
      The conference agreement continues prior year 
restrictions and limitations on assistance for the West Bank 
and Gaza, as contained in the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 
(Public Law 111-8) and the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-32).
      Yemen.--The conference agreement provides $5,000,000 for 
assistance for Yemen. The conferees remain concerned with the 
stability of Yemen and these funds are provided to bolster 
assistance programs in this fragile country, including for 
democracy and governance, health, education, and economic 
development activities. The conferees expect the Department of 
State and USAID to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations on the uses of assistance in this Act for Yemen.

                         South and Central Asia

      Afghanistan.--The conferees request the Department of 
State and USAID to jointly consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations following conclusion of the strategy review for 
Afghanistan, and to detail modifications, if any, in the fiscal 
year 2011 budget request.
      The Secretary of State shall include in the Afghanistan 
spending plan a description of how such funding will further 
the objectives outlined in the report required by section 1117 
of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-
32).
      The conferees expect the Secretary of State to submit the 
report proposed by the Senate in section 7076(g)(3) of the 
Senate bill, except that such report shall be submitted to the 
relevant congressional committees.
      The conferees recognize the necessity of inter-agency, 
pre-deployment training, in-country training, and data 
collection and analysis in strengthening stability programs and 
activities in Afghanistan. The conferees direct that funds be 
made available to the Tactical Conflict Assessment and Planning 
Framework program within USAID's Office of Transition 
Initiatives and the Office of Military Affairs at USAID for 
such purposes.
      The conference agreement includes a provision under 
section 7076(d) that is similar to language proposed by the 
House under this heading withholding funds for Afghanistan 
until a counternarcotics certification is made by the Secretary 
of State.
      Civilian Assistance Program.--The conference agreement 
provides $15,000,000 for the Afghan Civilian Assistance 
Program, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      National Solidarity Program.--The conference agreement 
provides $175,000,000 for the National Solidarity Program, as 
proposed by the House.
      Women and Girls.--The conference agreement requires that 
assistance for Afghanistan be designed and implemented with the 
full participation and leadership of Afghan women, and made 
available in a manner that directly improves the security, 
economic and social well-being, and political status of Afghan 
women and girls. Of the funds made available in this Act for 
assistance for Afghanistan, not less than $175,000,000 shall 
support programs that directly address the needs and protect 
the rights of Afghan women and girls, including the Afghan 
Independent Human Rights Commission, the Afghan Ministry of 
Women's Affairs, and women-led NGOs. Of the total, not less 
than $20,000,000 shall be for capacity building for Afghan 
women-led NGOs, and not less than $25,000,000 shall be for 
programs and activities of such NGOs, similar to that proposed 
by the Senate. USAID is directed to conduct more vigorous 
outreach to such NGOs, particularly in remote areas, to inform 
them of USAID programs and procedures.
      The conferees are concerned with the increase in violent 
attacks against women and girls, particularly at schools, and 
the lack of access to justice or safe houses for victims. Not 
less than $15,000,000 shall be used to train and support Afghan 
women investigators, police officers, prosecutors, judges, and 
social workers to respond to crimes of violence against women 
and girls, and administration of justice programs should 
include a focus on the special needs of women and girls.
      Not later than September 30, 2010, the Secretary of 
State, in consultation with the USAID Administrator, shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing 
the uses of funds provided in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to 
address the needs and protect the rights of Afghan women and 
girls, including efforts undertaken to prevent discrimination 
and violence against women and girls; provide economic and 
leadership opportunities; increase participation of women in 
the political process at the national, provincial and sub-
provincial levels; improve security for women and girls; and 
any other programs designed to directly benefit women and 
girls. The report should also describe the results to date.
      Pakistan.--The conferees support the program review 
conducted by the Department of State and USAID in Pakistan in 
order to ensure that the programs and activities funded are 
meeting programmatic objectives and furthering shared United 
States and Pakistani security interests. The results of this 
review should be provided to the Committees on Appropriations. 
The conferees are aware of the significant infrastructure needs 
in Pakistan, including in the energy and aviation sectors. 
However, the conferees are concerned with embarking on large-
scale, multi-year infrastructure projects in Pakistan and 
believe such work should be undertaken in coordination with 
other donors and through multilateral financing mechanisms to 
the maximum extent possible, factoring in security and 
sustainability considerations. The conferees direct the 
Secretary of State to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to committing to such projects. The 
conferees provide not less than $5,000,000 to continue a 
Civilian Assistance Program similar to such programs in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, and USAID is directed to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations on the planned uses of such funds 
prior to the obligation of funds. The conference agreement 
provides that $2,000,000 of the funds for Pakistan under this 
heading be transferred to the OIG at the Department of State 
for program oversight in Pakistan.
      The conferees endorse House and Senate Report language 
regarding programs and activities to counter the influence of 
violent extremism through local initiatives, including within 
madrassas.
      Government-to-Government Assistance.--The conference 
agreement requires that a bilateral agreement be in place prior 
to the provision of government-to-government assistance for the 
Governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Such an agreement 
should be structured to provide maximum accountability and 
oversight, and should contain conditions for disbursement of 
funds and detailed monitoring and reporting requirements. Funds 
should be deposited in and disbursed through a separate, 
traceable bank account for specific sectors. The Secretary of 
State is directed to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to the provision of any such assistance, 
including on the amounts, uses and oversight of such funds as 
well as on the terms of the bilateral agreement. The Secretary 
should suspend any government-to-government assistance to any 
implementing agency if there is credible evidence of misuse of 
such funds by such agency. The conferees encourage the 
Department of State to ensure that such assistance benefits 
Afghans and Pakistanis at the provincial and sub-provincial 
levels through mechanisms established with appropriate 
ministries, and with the concurrence of legitimate political 
leadership at the local level, including governors.

                           Western Hemisphere

      Colombia.--The conferees are concerned with the dire 
condition of large numbers of Colombian refugees in neighboring 
countries, as well as Colombians who have been internally 
displaced as a result of armed conflict. Within sums provided 
for assistance for Colombia under this heading, $45,000,000 
shall be made available to support internally displaced 
persons. Additionally, not less than $8,000,000 is transferred 
to the Migration and Refugee Assistance (MRA) heading for 
emergency assistance through nongovernmental and international 
organizations for Colombian refugees in neighboring countries.
      The conference agreement provides that up to $15,000,000 
of the funds made available for Colombia under this heading be 
used for programs which specifically benefit Afro-Colombian and 
indigenous communities. In addition, the conference agreement 
provides not less than $3,000,000 for programs to protect 
Colombia's biodiversity through the Colombian National Parks 
Service and indigenous communities living in buffer zones. The 
USAID Administrator shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to the obligation of these funds.

                            Global Programs

      Civilian Compensation.--Not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation 
with the USAID Administrator and the Secretary of Defense, 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
detailing steps taken to coordinate condolence payments and 
other assistance for civilians who suffer losses as a result of 
military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, similar 
to that proposed by the Senate.
      Disability Programs and Wheelchairs.--The conference 
agreement provides not less than $5,000,000 for disability 
programs and up to $10,000,000 for wheelchair programs. The 
conferees endorse the specific funding levels and uses of 
funding for disability programs, as proposed in the Senate 
Report.
      Environment and Climate Change.--The conference agreement 
does not include provisions regarding funding for the 
Department of State's Bureau of Oceans and International 
Environmental and Scientific Affairs and bilateral 
environmental programs under this heading, as proposed by the 
Senate. This issue is addressed in section 7081 of this Act.
      Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.--The 
conference agreement does not include language concerning the 
EITI, as proposed by the Senate. However, the conference 
agreement provides not less than $4,500,000 for a United States 
contribution to the EITI, including for efforts to improve the 
capacity of civil society organizations to participate in the 
EITI process.
      Internet Access and Freedom.--The conference agreement 
provides a total of $30,000,000 for programs and activities to 
expand unmonitored, uncensored access to the Internet for large 
numbers of users living in closed societies that have acutely 
hostile Internet environments, including in the People's 
Republic of China and Iran. Of this amount, $20,000,000 shall 
be made available under this heading, of which $10,000,000 
shall be derived from the Near East Regional Democracy program. 
An additional $10,000,000 shall be made available under the 
Democracy Fund (DF) heading. The Department of State shall 
consult on the uses of these funds, which are to be awarded in 
full and open competition according to all applicable rules and 
regulations.
      Kimberley Process.--The conference agreement does not 
include language proposed by the Senate concerning the 
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. However, the conference 
agreement provides not less than $3,000,000 to support 
implementation of the Kimberley Process, including for regional 
efforts to combat cross-border smuggling and to support 
monitoring by civil society organizations.
      Middle East Partnership Initiative.--The conferees direct 
the Secretary of State to report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on coordination with other agencies funding 
programs similar to those supported by MEPI, as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Pacific Tuna Treaty.--Not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall inform the 
Committees on Appropriations of steps taken to monitor funds 
provided to countries under the ESF heading for United States 
commitments to the 1987 South Pacific Tuna Treaty, and to 
coordinate such funds with other United States Government 
assistance provided to country recipients as appropriate.
      Trafficking in Persons.--The conferees direct that not 
less than $42,341,000 in this Act should be used for activities 
to combat trafficking in persons internationally, of which 
$6,010,000 is for the operations of G/TIP and $12,000,000 is 
for programs funded under the ESF heading and managed by G/TIP. 
The conferees endorse language on anti-trafficking efforts in 
sub-Saharan Africa, India, and Cambodia, as proposed by the 
House and Senate. The conferees recognize that anti-trafficking 
activities are funded through multiple agencies and accounts, 
and support the Administration's effort to complete an inter-
agency anti-trafficking strategy.

                         TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                           Account                             authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diplomatic and Consular Programs--Operations.................      6,010
Development Assistance--Country Programs.....................      3,718
Economic Support Fund........................................     13,350
Office to Combat Trafficking in Persons......................     12,000
Country Programs.............................................      1,350
Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia--Country           8,362
 Programs....................................................
International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement..........     10,901
Office to Combat Trafficking in Persons......................      9,262
Country Programs.............................................      1,639
                                                              ----------
    TOTAL....................................................    42,341
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  account total.

                             DEMOCRACY FUND

      The conference agreement provides $120,000,000 for the 
Democracy Fund, which is $10,000,000 below the House and the 
same as the Senate. Of the total, $70,000,000 is for the 
Department of State's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and 
Labor and $50,000,000 is for USAID's Office of Democracy and 
Governance of the Bureau of Democracy, Conflict, and 
Humanitarian Assistance (DCHA/DG).
      The conference agreement does not include language 
regarding the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, 
and countries located outside the Middle East region, as 
proposed by the Senate. The conferees intend that assistance 
for Taiwan should be matched from sources other than the United 
States Government.
      Certain authorities, definitions, and notifications 
regarding the promotion of democracy abroad are included under 
section 7034(m) of this Act, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement provides $10,000,000 under this 
heading for Internet access and freedom activities. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of State to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of these 
funds, which shall be awarded through a full and open 
competition process in accordance with all applicable rules and 
regulations. Additional funding for these programs is provided 
under the ESF heading.
      Funds provided under this heading for DCHA/DG are in 
addition to core program funding that is provided under the DA 
heading. Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

                             DEMOCRACY FUND
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                     Programs/activities                       authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Human Rights and Democracy Fund..............................     70,000
People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Taiwan................     17,000
Counter-Extremism Programs...................................      8,000
Internet Access and Freedom..................................     10,000
Unallocated..................................................     35,000
USAID, DCHA/DG...............................................     50,000
Elections and Political Process Fund.........................     32,500
International Labor Programs.................................      7,500
Support for Human Rights, Media and Rule of Law..............     10,000
                                                              ----------
    TOTAL--DF................................................   120,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  program total.

                     INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR IRELAND

      The conference agreement provides $17,000,000 for the 
International Fund for Ireland (IFI), which is $1,000,000 below 
the House and $17,000,000 above the Senate.
      The conferees expect that the assistance provided in this 
Act will be the final United States contribution to the IFI.

            ASSISTANCE FOR EUROPE, EURASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA

      The conference agreement provides $741,632,000 for 
Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia (AEECA), which 
is $19,379,000 above the House and $3,368,000 below the Senate. 
The conference agreement includes language similar to that 
proposed by the House and Senate, which provides the Department 
of State notwithstanding authority for additional flexibility 
in reprogramming prior year unobligated and unexpired funds 
within the account. The conferees direct that any such 
reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, and the terms 
and conditions previously attached to prior year funds continue 
to apply.
      Caucasus.--The conference agreement does not include 
language concerning the North Caucasus, as proposed by the 
Senate. However, the conferees direct that not less than 
$7,000,000 shall be made available for humanitarian, conflict 
mitigation, human rights, civil society, and relief and 
reconstruction assistance for the North Caucasus.
      The conferees support the Minsk Group's ongoing efforts 
and continue to urge all parties to the conflict to refrain 
from threats of violence and the use of inflammatory rhetoric. 
The conferees expect the Department of State to continue to 
inform the Committees on Appropriations that the requirements 
stipulated in subsection (g)(2) under the heading Assistance 
for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union in the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-115) are being met.
      The conferees direct that up to $8,000,000 be made 
available for programs and activities in Nagorno-Karabakh.
      Armenia.--The conferees expect the Department of State to 
continue to emphasize the use of civil society in implementing 
programs and activities in Armenia.
      Kyrgyz Republic.--The conference agreement includes a 
provision directing that up to $11,500,000 of the assistance 
for the Kyrgyz Republic under this heading shall be for the 
Joint Development Fund.
      Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe 
(OSCE).--The conferees support the OSCE's education and police 
initiatives to combat anti-Semitism in Europe and Eurasia and 
expect the Coordinator for United States Assistance for Europe 
and Eurasia to provide adequate funding to ensure continued 
leadership within the OSCE.
      Wildlife Conservation Programs.--The conference agreement 
does not include language concerning the USFS. However, the 
conferees direct that not less than $600,000 shall be made 
available to the USFS for forest protection and wildlife 
conservation programs in the Russian Far East and Ukraine, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

             ASSISTANCE FOR EUROPE, EURASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget
                       Country/Program                         authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Central Asia:
    Kazakhstan...............................................     10,400
    Kyrgyz Republic..........................................     46,000
    Tajikistan...............................................     42,500
    Turkmenistan.............................................     12,500
    Uzbekistan...............................................      8,250
    Regional--Central Asia...................................     11,000
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal--Central Asia...............................    130,650
  Europe and Eurasia:
    Albania..................................................     22,000
    Armenia..................................................     41,000
    Azerbaijan...............................................     22,000
    Belarus..................................................     15,000
    Bosnia and Herzegovina...................................     36,000
    Bulgaria.................................................        800
    Georgia..................................................     59,000
    Kosovo...................................................     95,000
    Macedonia................................................     22,000
    Moldova..................................................     19,000
    Montenegro...............................................      8,500
    Russia...................................................     59,000
    North Caucasus...........................................      7,000
    Serbia...................................................     49,000
    Ukraine..................................................     89,000
    Regional--Europe and Eurasia.............................     73,682
                                                              ----------
        Subtotal--Europe and Eurasia.........................    610,982
                                                              ----------
            Total--AEECA.....................................   741,632
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  country total.

                          Department of State

                    MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $1,685,000,000 for 
Migration and Refugee Assistance, which is $204,556,000 above 
the House and $7,200,000 above the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
concerning refugees resettling in Israel, as proposed by the 
Senate. However, the conferees note that according to the 
Department of State, no funds in this Act are used to assist 
refugees who reside in any Israeli settlement or outpost in the 
West Bank.
      The conference agreement includes a new provision 
directing that $35,000,000 of the funds made available under 
this heading be reserved for responding to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements of international and 
nongovernmental partners. The conferees agree that this reserve 
may be used to cover the breadth of migration and refugee 
activities and that any use of such funds is subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement in the 
Senate Report regarding North Korean refugees.
      The conferees recognize the work of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) in assisting Palestinians and 
promoting tolerance in the West Bank and Gaza, including 
through education, sports, and other programs for Palestinian 
youth. The conference agreement includes language in section 
7042(f)(3) applying the reporting requirements contained under 
this heading in the joint explanatory statement accompanying 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) 
regarding UNRWA to funds made available under this heading for 
fiscal year 2010. The House bill included a similar requirement 
in section 7086.
      The conferees support the continuation of assistance to 
Tibetan refugees in India and Nepal. The conferees endorse 
language in the House Report regarding efforts to ensure the 
safe transit of Tibetan refugees and to protect the rights of 
Tibetans residing in Nepal. The Senate Report included similar 
language.

     UNITED STATES EMERGENCY REFUGEE AND MIGRATION ASSISTANCE FUND

      The conference agreement provides $45,000,000 for the 
United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund, 
which is $30,000,000 below the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
overriding the funding ceiling contained in section 2(c)(2) of 
the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as proposed 
by the Senate.

                          Independent Agencies

                              PEACE CORPS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $400,000,000 for the 
Peace Corps, which is $50,000,000 below the House and 
$26,560,000 above the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision directing 
the Peace Corps to consult with and notify the Committees on 
Appropriations when a decision is made to open, close, suspend, 
or significantly reduce the number of personnel of a domestic 
or overseas office or a Peace Corps country program. The 
conferees provide an exception to this requirement when the 
situation presents a substantial security risk to volunteers or 
Peace Corps personnel and prior consultation or notification 
would delay actions necessary to safeguard personnel. Pursuant 
to section 7015(e) of this Act, the conferees intend that the 
Peace Corps shall notify the Committees as early as 
practicable, but no later than three days after taking action, 
whenever substantial risk to human health or welfare requires a 
waiver of the notification requirement.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
the Director of the Peace Corps to submit a spending plan to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act on the proposed uses of funds. The report 
should include a detailed budget for funds under this heading, 
short-term policy and operational changes being made to absorb 
funding increases above current services levels, and any 
specific plans related to recruitment, number and placement of 
volunteers, existing country programs, and opening of new 
country programs.
      The conference agreement also includes a provision 
requiring the Director to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, not later than 180 days after enactment of this 
Act, which includes the findings of a comprehensive assessment 
of the current program model of the Peace Corps and a strategy 
for reforming operations, similar to that proposed by the House 
and Senate. The conferees expect the review and strategy for 
reform to include recommendations for: (1) improving the 
recruitment and selection process to attract a wide diversity 
of highly and appropriately skilled volunteers; (2) training 
and medical care for volunteers and staff, as appropriate; (3) 
adjusting volunteer placement to reflect priority United States 
interests, country needs and commitment to shared goals, and 
volunteer skills; (4) coordinating with international and host 
country development assistance organizations; (5) lowering 
early termination rates; (6) strengthening management and 
independent evaluation and oversight; and (7) any other steps 
needed to ensure the effective use of resources and volunteers, 
and to prepare for and implement an appropriate expansion of 
the Peace Corps. The conferees support the Director's plan to 
involve external specialists in the review process.

                    MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $1,105,000,000 for the 
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), which is $295,000,000 
below the House and $155,000,000 above the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that makes 
funding available for country compacts only if a compact 
obligates, or contains a commitment to obligate funding subject 
to the availability of funds, the mutual agreement of the 
parties to the compact to proceed, and the entire amount of the 
United States Government funding anticipated for the duration 
of the compact, as proposed by the House. The conference 
agreement includes a provision that requires notification not 
later than 15 days prior to specific actions taken on country 
compacts and threshold agreements, as proposed by the House. 
The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
notification of the availability of funds from a country 
compact that has been suspended or terminated, as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conferees endorse the semi-annual reporting 
requirement, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      None of the funds provided under this heading may be used 
to carry out threshold programs until the MCC's Chief Executive 
Officer submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
listing the candidate countries that will receive assistance, 
the level of assistance proposed for each country, a 
description of the proposed programs, projects and activities, 
and the proposed implementing agency or agencies of the 
threshold program.
      The conference agreement includes a provision prohibiting 
the use of MCC funds for any military assistance or military 
training purposes, as proposed by the Senate. The conferees 
direct the MCC to identify any project that may be of a dual 
use nature, and to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations on the proposed safeguards to ensure that such a 
project will not be used for future military purposes by the 
compact country. The conferees are particularly concerned with 
airport renovations and upgrades.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
addresses the eligibility requirements for countries that were 
found to be eligible for a compact in fiscal year 2009, which 
was not in the House or Senate bills, but subsequently 
requested by the MCC.

                       INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION

      The conference agreement provides $23,000,000 for the 
Inter-American Foundation, which is $240,000 above the House 
and the same as the Senate.

                     AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

      The conference agreement provides $30,000,000 for the 
African Development Foundation, which is the same as the House 
and Senate.

                       Department of the Treasury

               INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $25,000,000 for 
International Affairs Technical Assistance, which is the same 
as the House and $5,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conferees endorse language regarding the provision of 
assistance for Cambodia in compliance with Cambodian law on the 
decentralization of power, as proposed in the Senate Report 
under the ESF heading.

                           DEBT RESTRUCTURING

      The conference agreement provides $60,000,000 for Debt 
Restructuring, which is the same as the House and Senate, of 
which $20,000,000 is provided to support implementation of the 
Tropical Forest Conservation Act.
      The conferees endorse the unallocated balances reporting 
requirement, as proposed by the House.
      Funds provided under this heading are subject to the 
terms and conditions of section 7015 of this Act.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT

      The conference agreement provides $1,597,000,000 for 
International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE), 
which is $33,000,000 below the House and $72,000,000 above the 
Senate. In order to better align security assistance funding, 
the conference agreement moves the INCLE account to title IV, 
instead of title III, as proposed by the House and Senate. The 
conference agreement merges the Andean Counterdrug Program 
account within the INCLE account and includes language 
exempting funds, subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, from the provisions of 
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
      The conferees endorse language related to the exercise of 
notwithstanding authority, as proposed by the House, and direct 
the Secretary of State to provide the Committees on 
Appropriations a written justification within five days when 
such authority is used.
      Afghanistan.--The conference agreement includes a 
limitation under this heading which prohibits funds for aerial 
spraying of herbicides in Afghanistan unless the Secretary of 
State determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the President of Afghanistan has requested 
such assistance, and requires that prior to the provision of 
any such assistance the Secretary shall consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations, as proposed by the House.
      The conferees endorse a reporting requirement on arrests 
of Afghan drug traffickers, similar to that proposed by the 
House. The report shall also include the names of those 
arrested, the disposition of cases, and an assessment of the 
obstacles to successful prosecution of such cases. This report 
may be submitted in a classified form, if necessary.
      Bolivia.--The conference agreement includes conditions on 
assistance to Bolivian police and military forces, similar to 
that proposed by the House.
      Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI).--The 
conferees endorse the budget request in INCLE for the CBSI, and 
direct that such funds shall be derived from amounts made 
available under Western Hemisphere Regional.
      Central America Regional Security Initiative (CARSI).--
The conferees remain concerned with youth violence, criminal 
gangs, organized crime, drug trafficking and other forms of 
criminal activity and violence in Central America. The 
conferees support the budget request under the INCLE heading 
for the Central America portion of the Merida Initiative and 
direct that such funds shall be made available from Western 
Hemisphere Regional funds for CARSI. The conferees direct the 
Secretary of State to undertake a comprehensive review of 
regional security assistance programs and submit a report not 
later than 90 days after enactment of this Act to the 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the threats or problems 
to be addressed, goals and objectives, planned uses of 
assistance, and expected results. The conferees expect the 
report to include all countries of Central America, including 
the Dominican Republic and Haiti, that have received assistance 
under the Merida Initiative.
      Colombia.--The conference agreement includes a provision 
that prohibits the use of any funds appropriated by this Act or 
prior Acts for assistance for the Colombian Departamento 
Administrativo de Seguridad (DAS), similar to that proposed by 
the Senate. The conferees intend that, should the DAS be 
dismantled, such prohibition shall also apply to any successor 
organization. The conferees are aware of reports that the DAS 
has repeatedly engaged in phone tapping, email interception, 
and other illegal activities against law-abiding citizens, 
including collusion with illegal armed groups.
      The conferees endorse language in the House and Senate 
Reports regarding Colombia's Center for Coordination of 
Integrated Action.
      Guatemala.--The conference agreement does not include a 
provision concerning certain organizations in Guatemala, as 
proposed by the Senate. However, the conferees are concerned 
with reports of threats and violent attacks against human 
rights defenders and the lack of resources to protect them and 
their families, investigate these crimes, and punish those 
responsible. The conferees direct that not less than $2,000,000 
shall be made available to support the Ministry of Interior's 
Institute for Attacks Against Human Rights Defenders, officers 
within the Criminal Investigation Division of the Police who 
are assigned to work with the Institute, and the Department for 
the Protection of Personalities of the Police including its 
Unit of Risk Analysis.
      Iraq.--The conferees direct that none of the funds made 
available for assistance for Iraq may be used for new 
construction, as proposed in the Senate Report.
      Mexico.--The conferees endorse the reporting requirements 
on the uses of Merida Initiative funds in Mexico, including on 
the Mexican Federal Registry of Police Personnel, as proposed 
in the Senate Report. The report shall be submitted not later 
than 90 days after enactment of this Act. The report should 
also address the specific uses of all prior appropriations, 
including the status of obligations.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision, 
proposed by the House and Senate, concerning compatibility of 
law enforcement communications equipment. However, the 
conferees direct that any funds appropriated under this heading 
that are available for assistance for Mexico may be made 
available for the procurement of law enforcement communications 
equipment if, where appropriate, such equipment utilizes 
encryption technology, open standards, and is compatible with 
and capable of operating with radio communications systems and 
related equipment utilized by relevant law enforcement agencies 
in the United States, to enhance border security and 
cooperation in law enforcement efforts between Mexico and the 
United States. Such funds shall be awarded through full and 
open competition in accordance with all applicable rules and 
regulations.
      The conferees are concerned that the report submitted 
pursuant to section 1406(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252) and section 7045(e)(1) of the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) relating to 
human rights in Mexico did not include the requisite findings 
by the Secretary of State that the Government of Mexico had met 
the requirements in the law. The conferees remain concerned 
with the lack of progress on these issues, and the lack of 
transparency in cases involving allegations against Mexican 
military personnel, and direct that future reports submitted 
pursuant to section 7045(e)(2) of this Act include the 
necessary findings.
      Copyright Materials.--The conference agreement provides 
$5,000,000 for programs to combat piracy of United States 
copyright materials, as proposed by the Senate.
      International Law Enforcement Academies (ILEAs).--The 
conferees support the utilization of the Department of State's 
ILEA facility at Roswell, New Mexico, provide $5,000,000 for 
this purpose in fiscal year 2010, and direct the Secretary of 
State to develop and submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
a multi-year plan for the continued operation of the Roswell 
facility on a competitive basis in accordance with all 
applicable rules and regulations.
      Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

           INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                     Country/Program                         authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Afghanistan.............................................         420,000
Bolivia.................................................          20,000
Colombia................................................         248,900
Costa Rica..............................................             500
Dominican Republic......................................           4,450
Egypt...................................................           1,000
Guatemala...............................................           7,500
    CICIG...............................................           4,000
Haiti...................................................          21,107
Indonesia...............................................          11,570
Iraq....................................................          52,000
Jordan..................................................           1,500
Lebanon.................................................          20,000
Mexico..................................................         190,000
Nepal...................................................           3,700
Pakistan................................................         130,000
Paraguay................................................             500
Peru....................................................          40,000
Philippines.............................................           1,365
Thailand................................................           1,740
West Bank/Gaza..........................................         100,000
Western Hemisphere Regional.............................          81,607
Alien Smuggling/Border Security.........................           1,000
Anticrime Programs......................................           4,150
Combating Copyright Piracy--Cyber Crime and Intellectual           5,000
 Property Rights........................................
Critical Flight Safety Program..........................          20,750
Civilian Police Programs................................           4,000
Combating Criminal Youth Gangs..........................           8,000
Demand Reduction........................................          14,000
Fighting Corruption.....................................           4,750
International Law Enforcement Academies.................          37,200
    Shared Security Partnership.........................          17,200
    Roswell, New Mexico.................................           5,000
International Organizations.............................           4,500
Combating International Organized Crime.................           1,000
Interregional Aviation Support..........................          60,088
Program Development and Support.........................          24,523
Global Peacekeeping Operations Initiative...............           5,000
Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons.....           9,262
Unallocated.............................................          36,338
                                                         ---------------
    Total--INCLE........................................      1,597,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  country or program total.

    NONPROLIFERATION, ANTI-TERRORISM, DEMINING AND RELATED PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $754,000,000 for 
Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs 
(NADR), which is $36,570,000 above the House and $7,165,000 
below the Senate. In order to better align security assistance 
funding, the conference agreement moves the NADR account to 
title IV, instead of title III, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
prior consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
Appropriations on all Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund 
activities, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
providing $37,000,000 for the Biosecurity Engagement Program, 
as proposed by the Senate. However, the conferees direct that 
$37,000,000 shall be made available for these purposes.
      The conferees endorse language related to the exercise of 
notwithstanding authority as proposed in the House Report, and 
direct the Secretary of State to provide the Committees on 
Appropriations a written justification within five days each 
time such authority is used.
      Laos and Vietnam.--The conferees direct that not less 
than $5,000,000 shall be made available for unexploded ordnance 
removal in Laos, and that not less than $3,500,000 shall be 
made available for similar activities in Vietnam. The conferees 
further direct the Department of State to plan for similar or 
higher funding levels for these purposes in subsequent fiscal 
years, similar to that proposed by the Senate.
      Pakistan.--The conference agreement does not include a 
provision providing $6,000,000 to continue biosecurity threat 
reduction programs in Pakistan from within the Global Threat 
Reduction program, as proposed by the Senate. However, the 
conferees direct that $6,000,000 shall be made available for 
such purposes.
      Small Arms/Light Weapons.--The conferees endorse language 
directing the Secretary of State to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the uses of funds for programs 
to destroy small arms and light weapons, as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

     NONPROLIFERATION, ANTI-TERRORISM, DEMINING AND RELATED PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                        Programs                             authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Nonproliferation Programs
    Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund...............          75,000
    Export Control and Related Border Security                    53,950
     Assistance.........................................
    Global Threat Reduction.............................          70,000
        Biosecurity Engagement Program..................          37,000
    International Atomic Energy Agency Voluntary                  65,000
     Contribution.......................................
    Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty International                   30,000
     Monitoring System..................................
    Weapons of Mass Destruction Terrorism...............           2,000
                                                         ---------------
Subtotal--Nonproliferation Programs.....................         295,950
  Anti-terrorism Programs
    Anti-terrorism Assistance...........................         215,000
    Terrorist Interdiction Program......................          54,500
    Counter-terrorism Engagement with Allies............           6,000
    Counter-terrorism Financing.........................          21,000
                                                         ---------------
Subtotal--Anti-terrorism Programs.......................         296,500
  Regional Stability and Humanitarian Assistance
    Humanitarian Demining Program.......................          74,350
    International Trust Fund............................          12,200
    Small Arms/Light Weapons Destruction................          75,000
                                                         ---------------
Subtotal--Regional Stability and Humanitarian Assistance         161,550
                                                         ---------------
    Total--NADR.........................................        754,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  program total.

                        PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement provides $331,500,000 for 
Peacekeeping Operations (PKO), to support multilateral 
peacekeeping operations and training, which is the same as the 
House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision granting 
limited notwithstanding authority of section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, similar to that proposed by the House 
and Senate.
      The conference agreement provides that $55,000,000 of 
funds made available under this heading for assistance for 
Somalia may be used to pay assessed costs of international 
peacekeeping activities, as proposed by the House and Senate.
      The conferees endorse language related to the exercise of 
notwithstanding authority, as proposed in the House Report, and 
direct the Secretary of State to provide the Committees on 
Appropriations a written justification each time such authority 
is used.
      Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

                         PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                     Country/Program                         authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Democratic Republic of the Congo........................          18,000
Liberia.................................................          10,000
Somalia.................................................         102,000
    Assessed peacekeeping costs.........................          55,000
Sudan...................................................          44,000
Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Partnership..............          21,000
    Shared Security Partnership.........................           3,300
Department of State Africa Regional.....................          13,600
    Shared Security Partnership.........................           6,100
Global Peace Operations Initiative......................          96,900
Multinational Force and Observers.......................          26,000
                                                         ---------------
    Total--PKO..........................................        331,500
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  country or program total.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING

      The conference agreement provides $108,000,000 for 
International Military Education and Training (IMET), which is 
$2,283,000 below the House and $2,850,000 above the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
that funds made available for Angola, Bangladesh, Cameroon, the 
Central African Republic, Chad, Cote d'Ivoire, the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, 
Kenya, Libya, Nepal, Nigeria, and Sri Lanka may only be 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations and any such notification shall 
include a detailed description of the proposed activities, 
similar to that proposed by the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes language in section 
7070 prohibiting IMET assistance for Equatorial Guinea, as 
proposed by the House. The Senate included a similar provision 
under this heading.
      The conferees direct the GAO to conduct an evaluation of 
the effectiveness of the IMET program in building 
professionalism and respect for human rights within foreign 
military forces in selected countries, and to submit the 
results of such evaluation to the Committees on Appropriations 
not later than September 30, 2010. The evaluation should 
include a representative sampling of countries from each 
geographical region.
      The conferees direct that of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for assistance 
for Pakistan; $5,000,000 for assistance for Turkey; $400,000 
for assistance for Vietnam; and $1,900,000 for assistance for 
Egypt. The conferees do not endorse language proposed under 
this heading in the House Report regarding Argentina.

                   FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM

      The conference agreement provides $4,195,000,000 for the 
Foreign Military Financing Program, which is $65,000,000 below 
the House and $206,000,000 above the Senate. The conference 
agreement includes a provision that grants the Secretary of 
State authority to initiate the procurement of defense articles 
or services for foreign security forces subject to prior 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, as proposed 
by the Senate and similar to that proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes a provision restricting 
funding under this heading for follow-on activities of programs 
initiated under the authority of section 1206 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-
163) unless the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, has justified the program to the 
Committees on Appropriations, similar to that proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision to 
transfer funds from this heading to the D&CP heading, as 
proposed by the Senate. However, the conference agreement 
includes funds within the D&CP heading for monitoring 
activities.
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring 
that assistance for Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Cambodia, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Nepal, Pakistan, 
Philippines, and Sri Lanka may be provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
similar to that proposed by the House and Senate.
      Colombia.--The conference agreement provides not more 
than $55,000,000 for assistance for Colombia, of which up to 
$12,500,000 is for maritime interdiction and riverine 
operations, as proposed by the House.
      Egypt.--The conference agreement provides not less than 
$1,040,000,000 for assistance for Egypt, which shall be 
transferred within 30 days of enactment of this Act to an 
interest bearing account in the Federal Reserve Bank in New 
York, as proposed by the House and Senate. The conferees note 
that these funds are in addition to $260,000,000 provided in 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) 
for fiscal year 2010, for a combined total of $1,300,000,000, 
which is the same as the budget request.
      Indonesia.--The conference agreement includes a 
provision, similar to that proposed by the House and Senate, 
providing $20,000,000 under this heading for assistance for 
Indonesia, of which $2,000,000 may not be obligated until the 
Secretary of State reports in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations pursuant to section 7071(d) of this Act on the 
following--
            (1) Steps taken by the Government of Indonesia to 
        revise the Code of Military Justice, Uniform Criminal 
        Code, and other relevant statutes to permit trials of 
        current and former members of the Armed Forces alleged 
        to have committed violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights, including in Timor-Leste, in 
        civilian courts; to deny promotion, suspend from active 
        service, and/or pursue prosecution of military officers 
        indicted for serious crimes; and to refine further the 
        mission of the Armed Forces and develop an appropriate 
        national defense budget to carry out that mission;
            (2) Efforts by the Armed Forces of Indonesia to 
        cooperate with civilian judicial authorities and with 
        international efforts to resolve cases of violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights, including in 
        Timor-Leste;
            (3) Efforts by the Government of Indonesia to 
        implement reforms that increase the transparency and 
        accountability of the Armed Forces' operations and 
        financial management and to achieve divestment of all 
        military businesses; and
            (4) Whether the Government of Indonesia is allowing 
        public access to Papua, including foreign diplomats, 
        NGOs, and journalists.
      Iraq.--The conferees remain concerned with the political 
situation in Iraq and the ramifications of increased 
instability on the security requirements of neighboring allies. 
While the conference agreement does not include language 
proposed by the Senate providing for a reprogramming of funds 
under this heading to address urgent border security 
requirements arising from a significant increase in instability 
in Iraq for such countries, the conferees direct the Secretary 
of State to consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
within 90 days of enactment of this Act on plans to bolster 
security requirements in neighboring allied countries in the 
event of such a scenario.
      Israel.--The conference agreement provides not less than 
$2,220,000,000 for grants for Israel which shall be disbursed 
within 30 days of enactment of this Act and of which 
$583,860,000 is available for offshore procurement, as proposed 
by the House and Senate. The conferees note that these funds 
are in addition to $555,000,000 provided in the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) for fiscal year 
2010, for a combined total of $2,775,000,000 in fiscal year 
2010, which is the same as the budget request.
      Jordan.--The conference agreement provides $150,000,000 
for assistance for Jordan, as proposed by the House and Senate. 
The conferees note that these funds are in addition to the 
$150,000,000 provided in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-32), for a combined total of $300,000,000 
in fiscal year 2010, which is the same as the budget request.
      Pakistan.--The conference agreement provides $238,000,000 
for assistance for Pakistan and authority for the transfer of 
up to an additional $60,000,000 under the ESF heading in this 
Act and prior Acts.
      Philippines.--The conference agreement does not include 
language detailing reporting requirements relating to human 
rights in the Philippines, as proposed by the House. The 
conference agreement includes language, similar to that 
proposed by the Senate, providing $32,000,000 for assistance 
for the Philippines, of which $3,000,000 may not be obligated 
until the Secretary of State reports in writing to the 
Committees on Appropriations pursuant to section 7071(h) of 
this Act that--
            (1) The Government of the Philippines is continuing 
        to take effective steps to implement the 
        recommendations of the UN Special Rapporteur on extra-
        judicial, summary or arbitrary executions; sustaining 
        the decline in the number of extra-judicial executions; 
        and strengthening government institutions working to 
        eliminate extra-judicial executions;
            (2) The Government of the Philippines is 
        implementing a policy of promoting military personnel 
        who demonstrate professionalism and respect for 
        internationally recognized human rights, and is 
        investigating, prosecuting, and punishing military 
        personnel and others who have been credibly alleged to 
        have violated such rights; and
            (3) The Armed Forces of the Philippines do not have 
        a policy of, and are not engaging in, acts of violence 
        or intimidation against members of legal organizations 
        who advocate for human rights.
      Morocco.--The conferees endorse the reporting requirement 
on human rights in Morocco, as proposed in the Senate Report.
      Nepal.--The conference agreement includes a provision 
(section 7071(e)) requiring the Secretary of State to make 
certifications to the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
making funds available under this heading for assistance for 
Nepal, similar to that proposed by the Senate.
      Western Hemisphere Maritime Cooperation.--The conferees 
direct that up to $18,000,000 is available to continue maritime 
security cooperation programs in the Caribbean and in the 
countries of Central America.
      Training and Equipment Report.--The conference agreement 
does not include a provision, as proposed by the Senate, 
concerning an annual foreign military training report. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
Defense to submit the report required by section 656 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 by the date specified in that 
section.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision, as 
proposed by the Senate, concerning a report on equipment. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
other relevant Federal agencies, to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act detailing the equipment to be purchased 
with funds appropriated or otherwise made available under the 
INCLE and FMF headings. The report shall include a description 
of the anticipated costs associated with the operation and 
maintenance of such equipment in subsequent fiscal years. For 
purposes of the report, ``equipment'' shall be defined as any 
aircraft, vessel, boat or vehicle.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision, as 
proposed by the Senate, which would have amended section 656 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. The conferees direct the 
Secretary of State to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 180 days after enactment of this 
Act detailing, for each country that received assistance under 
chapter 5 or part II of such Act during the reporting period 
specified in that section, the net savings to that country for 
training purchased at a reduced cost or incremental rate 
through the Foreign Military Sales program, as authorized by 
section 21(a)(1)(C) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended 
by section 108 of the International Security and Development 
Cooperation Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-83).
      Vetting.--The conferees endorse the reporting requirement 
on embassy personnel conducting human rights vetting, as 
proposed in the Senate Report.
      Funds in this account are allocated according to the 
following table, subject to the provisions of section 7019 of 
this Act:

                   FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Budget
                      Country/Program                         authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Armenia....................................................        3,000
Azerbaijan.................................................        3,000
Bahrain....................................................       19,000
Cambodia...................................................        1,000
Colombia...................................................       55,000
Dominican Republic.........................................        1,000
Egypt......................................................    1,040,000
Ethiopia...................................................          843
Georgia....................................................       16,000
Guatemala..................................................        1,000
Haiti......................................................        1,600
Indonesia..................................................       20,000
Israel.....................................................    2,220,000
Jordan.....................................................      150,000
Kazakhstan.................................................        3,000
Kyrgyz Republic............................................        3,500
Lebanon....................................................      100,000
Malta......................................................          455
Mexico.....................................................        5,250
Morocco....................................................        9,000
Pakistan...................................................      238,000
Philippines................................................       32,000
Poland.....................................................       47,000
Tajikistan.................................................        1,500
Thailand...................................................        1,600
Tunisia....................................................       18,000
Turkmenistan...............................................        2,000
Ukraine....................................................       11,000
Vietnam....................................................        2,000
Yemen......................................................       12,500
Western Hemisphere Maritime Cooperation....................       18,000
FMF Administrative Costs...................................       54,464
Unallocated................................................      104,288
                                                            ------------
    Total--FMF.............................................    4,195,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $394,000,000 for 
International Organizations and Programs (IO&P), which is 
$1,091,000 below the House and $1,000,000 above the Senate. 
Funds are allocated according to the following table, subject 
to the provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

                INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Budget
                          Programs                            authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Center for Human Settlements...............................        2,050
International Civil Aviation Organization..................          950
International Conservation Programs........................        7,500
International Contributions for Scientific, Educational and        1,000
 Cultural Activities.......................................
International Development Law Organization.................          600
Maritime Security Programs.................................          400
International Panel on Climate Change/UN Framework                13,000
 Convention on Climate Change..............................
Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund........................       25,500
Organization of American States (OAS) Development                  5,000
 Assistance Programs.......................................
OAS Fund for Strengthening Democracy.......................        3,000
UN Capital Development Fund................................          625
UN Children's Fund.........................................      132,250
UN Democracy Fund..........................................        4,500
UN Development Program.....................................      100,500
UN Environment Program.....................................       11,500
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights......................        7,000
UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.....        3,000
UN Population Fund.........................................       55,000
UN Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the Field of        1,425
 Human Rights..............................................
UN Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture...................        7,100
UN Women's Fund (UNIFEM)/UN Development Fund for Women.....        6,000
UNIFEM Trust Fund..........................................        3,000
World Meteorological Organization..........................        2,050
World Trade Organization Technical Assistance..............        1,050
                                                            ------------
    Total--IO&P............................................      394,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The conferees support efforts at the UN to address the 
needs of women and girls, and note that on September 14, 2009, 
the UN General Assembly approved a resolution to establish a 
new agency to address these issues, which includes reference to 
the possible consolidation of existing gender agencies and 
programs into the new entity. The conferees direct the 
Department of State to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to providing funds to this new entity or 
providing any funds appropriated for a United States 
contribution to UNIFEM or the UNIFEM Trust Fund to this new 
mechanism.

                  INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

      The conference agreement provides $86,500,000 for the 
Global Environment Facility, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.

       CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

      The conference agreement provides $1,262,500,000 for a 
contribution to the International Development Association, 
which is $27,500,000 above the House and $57,500,000 below the 
Senate.
      The conferees are concerned that a significant portion of 
World Bank financing, particularly its support for fossil fuel 
power plants, conflicts with and undermines the goals of the 
CTF to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The conferees direct 
the Secretary of the Treasury to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than September 30, 2010, 
comparing the amount of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions 
resulting from activities funded by the CTF with the amount of 
such emissions generated as a result of other World Bank 
financing, during fiscal year 2010.

               CONTRIBUTION TO THE CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND

      The conference agreement provides $300,000,000 for a 
contribution to the Clean Technology Fund, which is $75,000,000 
above the House and $100,000,000 below the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
that limits the availability of funds provided under this 
heading until authorized, as proposed by the House. Funds 
provided under this heading are subject to the terms and 
conditions in section 7081(g) of this Act.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of the Treasury to 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations not later 
than 180 days after enactment of this Act and every 90 days 
thereafter until September 30, 2010, detailing the total 
pledges and actual contributions made to date to the CTF and 
SCF by country; an estimate of administrative and overhead 
costs to the World Bank in administering the funds in 2010; a 
list of applications funded by country with CTF and SCF funds, 
including types of technology funded, entities to which the 
funds were provided, and whether the funds were provided in the 
form of budget support; the extent to which the World Bank has 
established a methodology to evaluate and publicly report on 
the direct or indirect impact of CTF and SCF funds on climate 
change; and the extent to which the World Bank has established 
a policy on taxes and tariffs imposed by national governments 
on goods and services funded by the CTF and SCF.

               CONTRIBUTION TO THE STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND

      The conference agreement provides $75,000,000 for a 
contribution to the Strategic Climate Fund, which is the same 
as the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement does not include a provision 
that limits the availability of funds provided under this 
heading until authorized, as proposed by the House.

          CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

      The conference agreement provides $4,670,000 for a 
contribution to the Inter-American Development Bank, which is 
the same as the House and Senate.

CONTRIBUTION TO THE ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT 
                                  FUND

      The conference agreement provides $25,000,000 for a 
contribution to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund, which is the same as the House and Senate.

               CONTRIBUTION TO THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

      The conference agreement provides $105,000,000 for a 
contribution to the Asian Development Fund, which is 
$10,250,000 below the House and Senate.

              CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

      The conference agreement provides $155,000,000 for a 
contribution to the African Development Fund, which is 
$4,885,000 below the House and Senate.

  CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $30,000,000 for a 
contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development, which is the same as the House and Senate.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-Import Bank of the United States

                           INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $2,500,000 for the 
Inspector General, which is the same as the House and Senate.

                         SUBSIDY APPROPRIATION

      The conference agreement provides $58,000,000 for the 
Subsidy Appropriation, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.

                        ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $83,880,000 for 
Administrative Expenses, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.
      The conference agreement directs that not less than 10 
percent of the aggregate loan, guarantee, and insurance 
authority available to the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im) should be 
used for renewable energy or end-use energy efficiency 
technologies. The conferees endorse the environmental reporting 
requirement, as proposed by the House. The report should 
include all financing carried out in fiscal year 2009 for 
renewable energy or end-use energy efficiency technologies, as 
well as other environmentally beneficial exports; efforts made 
by Ex-Im to promote and support such exports; information on 
which regions and sectors exhibit the greatest potential for 
such exports; how Ex-Im defines and tracks such activities; 
data on Ex-Im's progress toward meeting the 10 percent 
directive and Ex-Im's planned efforts to overcome any 
shortfall; Ex-Im data, current policies, and mitigation 
measures on greenhouse gas emissions of its projects; and, as 
applicable, the status of implementation of recommendations 
made by the GAO related to the promotion of renewable energy or 
end-use energy efficiency technologies, as well as other 
environmentally beneficial exports.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement on the 
impact of the global financial crisis and economic downturn on 
the work of Ex-Im, as proposed by the House. The report should 
include annual and quarterly data, detail and trends, both in 
aggregate and for each category of credit, guarantee, or 
insurance instrument offered by Ex-Im, on the following: impact 
on demand for Ex-Im's credit and other services; impact on the 
volume of Ex-Im transactions; impact on activity across 
specific regions or sectors; impact on risk portfolio and 
default rates; impact on revenue generated by Ex-Im services; 
likely explanations for these effects; resulting adjustments 
made to Ex-Im's management and operations; and any other 
opportunities, lessons, or vulnerabilities resulting from 
recent global economic conditions. For comparison, data 
provided should include fiscal year 2008.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           NONCREDIT ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $52,310,000 for 
administrative expenses, which is the same as the House and 
Senate.

                            PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement provides $29,000,000 for the 
Program Account, which is the same as the House and Senate.
      The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) is 
directed to provide written reports on a semi-annual basis, as 
in prior years, as proposed by the House. The conferees also 
endorse the consultation requirements for OPIC's use of local 
currency loan guaranty authority and for financing of NGOs or 
private voluntary organizations, as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes a reporting requirement 
in section 7079(b) on OPIC's commitment to invest in renewable 
and other clean energy technologies and on OPIC's plans to 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its 
portfolio, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees endorse the reporting requirement on the 
impact of the global financial crisis and economic downturn on 
the work of OPIC, as proposed by the House. The report should 
include annual and quarterly data, detail and trends, both in 
aggregate and for each category of credit, guarantee, or 
insurance instrument offered by OPIC, on the following: impact 
on demand for OPIC's credit and other services; impact on the 
volume of OPIC transactions; impact on activity across specific 
regions or sectors; impact on risk portfolio of OPIC projects; 
impact on ability to partner with private sector financial 
institutions; likely explanations for these effects; resulting 
adjustments made to OPIC's management and operations; and any 
other opportunities, lessons, or vulnerabilities resulting from 
recent global economic conditions. For comparison, data 
provided should include fiscal year 2008.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                      TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

      The conference agreement provides $55,200,000 for the 
Trade and Development Agency, which is the same as the House 
and Senate.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

      Provisions retained from the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-8):
      The following general provisions include language which 
is identical to or substantively unchanged from the fiscal year 
2009 Act except for a different section number or minor 
technical or structural differences:

      Sec. 7001. ``Allowances and Differentials.''
      Sec. 7002. ``Unobligated Balances Report.''
      Sec. 7003. ``Consulting Services.''
      Sec. 7005. ``Personnel Actions.''
      Sec. 7007. ``Prohibition Against Direct Funding for 
Certain Countries.''
      Sec. 7010. ``Reporting Requirement.''
      Sec. 7011. ``Availability of Funds.''
      Sec. 7012. ``Limitation on Assistance to Countries in 
Default.''
      Sec. 7013. ``Prohibition on Taxation of United States 
Assistance.''
      Sec. 7014. ``Reservations of Funds.''
      Sec. 7016. ``Notification on Excess Defense Equipment.''
      Sec. 7017. ``Limitation on Availability of Funds for 
International Organizations and Programs.''
      Sec. 7018. ``Prohibition on Funding for Abortions and 
Involuntary Sterilization.''
      Sec. 7020. ``Prohibition of Payment of Certain 
Expenses.''
      Sec. 7021. ``Prohibition on Assistance to Foreign 
Governments that Export Lethal Military Equipment to Countries 
Supporting International Terrorism.''
      Sec. 7022. ``Prohibition on Bilateral Assistance to 
Terrorist Countries.''
      Sec. 7023. ``Authorization Requirements.''
      Sec. 7024. ``Definition of Program, Project, and 
Activity.''
      Sec. 7025. ``Authorities for the Peace Corps, Inter-
American Foundation and African Development Foundation.''
      Sec. 7026. ``Commerce, Trade and Surplus Commodities.''
      Sec. 7027. ``Separate Accounts.''
      Sec. 7028. ``Eligibility for Assistance.''
      Sec. 7029. ``Impact on Jobs in the United States.''
      Sec. 7031. ``Debt-for-Development.''
      Sec. 7032. ``Authority to Engage in Debt Buybacks or 
Sales.''
      Sec. 7033. ``Special Debt Relief for the Poorest.''
      Sec. 7035. ``Arab League Boycott of Israel.''
      Sec. 7036. ``Palestinian Statehood.''
      Sec. 7037. ``Restrictions Concerning the Palestinian 
Authority.''
      Sec. 7038. ``Prohibition on Assistance to the Palestinian 
Broadcasting Corporation.''
      Sec. 7039. ``Assistance for the West Bank and Gaza.''
      Sec. 7047. ``Community-Based Police Assistance.''
      Sec. 7048. ``Prohibition of Payments to United Nations 
Members.''
      Sec. 7049. ``War Crimes Tribunals Drawdown.''
      Sec. 7050. ``Peacekeeping Missions.''
      Sec. 7053. ``Attendance at International Conferences.''
      Sec. 7054. ``Restrictions on United Nations 
Delegations.''
      Sec. 7055. ``Parking Fines and Real Property Taxes Owed 
by Foreign Governments.''
      Sec. 7057. ``Prohibition on Publicity or Propaganda.''
      Sec. 7058. ``Limitation on Residence Expenses.''
      Sec. 7066. ``Comprehensive Expenditures Report.''
      Sec. 7067. ``Requests for Documents.''
      Sec. 7068. ``Senior Policy Operating Group.''
      Sec. 7069. ``Prohibition on Use of Torture.''
      Sec. 7072. ``Serbia.''
      Sec. 7073. ``Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union.''
      Sec. 7074. ``Repression in the Russian Federation.''
      Sec. 7077. ``Enterprise Funds.''
      Sec. 7080. ``Extradition.''
      Sec. 7082. ``Prohibition on Promotion of Tobacco.''
      Sec. 7083. ``Commercial Leasing of Defense Articles.''

      The following provisions are new, modified from the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8), or further 
clarified in this joint statement.
Sec. 7004. Embassy construction
      The provision is modified by including subsection (c), 
which requires the Department of State to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds 
to acquire property for diplomatic facilities in Kabul, 
Afghanistan, similar to that proposed by the Senate.
Sec. 7006. Local guard contracts
      The conference agreement includes a new provision which 
allows the Secretary of State flexibility to award local guard 
contracts on the basis of either lowest price that is 
technically acceptable or the best value cost-technical 
tradeoff (as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation part 
15.101) when awarding such contracts in Afghanistan, Iraq and 
Pakistan. Current law requires that all local guard contracts 
must be awarded on the basis of the lowest price that is 
technically acceptable, and if other factors had been 
considered, the problems reported earlier this year involving 
the local guard contract in Kabul, Afghanistan may have been 
prevented. The conferees understand that providing the 
Secretary with authority to make awards through the best value 
approach can enhance the guard force's effectiveness and 
justify the additional cost, particularly in countries with 
dangerous or hostile environments.
Sec. 7008. Coups d'Etat
      The conference agreement changes the heading from 
``Military Coups'' to ``Coups d'Etat''. While there is no 
substantive change to the provision, the conferees are 
concerned that the previous title implied an unintended 
limitation of the provision's application, and direct the 
Department of State's Office of the Legal Advisor to undertake 
a review of events necessary to trigger the provisions of this 
section and submit a report on such events to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
Act.
Sec. 7009. Transfer authority
      The conference agreement includes a new subsection 
requiring notification of transfers over $1,000,000 between 
either USAID or the Department of State and any department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government. The 
provision is further modified by requiring audits of funds 
transferred by the Department of State to any other federal 
agency.
Sec. 7015. Reprogramming notification requirements
      The conference agreement modifies subsection (c) to 
include the CSI and CCF headings; subsection (d) to include an 
exemption from the requirements of this subsection to funds 
transferred to title I of this Act; and subsection (f) by 
including Somalia and Sri Lanka on the country notification 
list.
Sec. 7019. Allocations
      The conference agreement modifies this section to include 
charts under the following headings: CSI, D&CP, American 
Sections, International Commissions, DF, INCLE, and PKO; and 
strikes Andean Counterdrug Programs.
Sec. 7030. International financial institutions
      The conference agreement continues prior year language 
related to limitations on programs in Heavily Indebted Poor 
Countries, as proposed by the House, and includes technical 
changes.
Sec. 7034. Special authorities
      The conference agreement is modified by deleting 
subsections (i), (k), (m), and (o); moving subsection (f) to 
section 7085(c) of this Act; modifying subsection (d); and 
including new subsections (j), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), 
(r), (s), and (t).
      The conference agreement includes a modified provision 
(subsection (o)) that restricts the use of funds in this Act 
for implementation of the Partner Vetting System (PVS), similar 
to that proposed by the Senate. The section was modified to 
allow for implementation of a limited pilot program, and the 
conferees understand that this pilot program may be conducted 
in up to five countries and in Washington. The provision also 
requires that the PVS pilot be applied equally to the 
Department of State and USAID. Steps to put USAID's PVS system 
in place began in fiscal year 2009, and the system should be 
designed to vet USAID partners in order to minimize the risk 
that taxpayer-funded assistance could be diverted for terrorist 
purposes, without impeding the efficient and effective 
implementation of United States foreign assistance programs. 
The conferees expect the system to be extended to the 
Department of State's implementing partners but do not intend 
for this extension to supersede current Leahy vetting 
requirements on security assistance.
      The conferees remain concerned with the quality of the 
Department of State and USAID congressional budget 
justifications (CBJs). While the conference agreement does not 
include language proposed by the Senate that would have 
prohibited the obligation of funds to compile, produce, or 
publish any CBJ documents for fiscal year 2011 until the 
Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations, the conferees expect 
consultations to continue regarding the purpose, format, and 
content of the CBJs.
      The conference agreement includes a provision clarifying 
the Secretary of State's obligations regarding visa 
determinations for applicants of A-3 and G-5 visas, under the 
William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457). For purposes 
of section 203(a)(2) of such Act, a final civil judgment in a 
trafficking case or a determination by the Department of 
Justice that the United States Government would seek to indict 
the diplomat or a family member but for diplomatic immunity 
shall be deemed ``credible evidence'' of abuse or other 
mistreatment.
Sec. 7040. Limitation on Assistance for the Palestinian Authority
      The conference agreement includes a new subsection (f), 
which is substantively identical to the provision carried in 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32). 
The new subsection continues to prohibit assistance to Hamas or 
any entity effectively controlled by Hamas, and further 
prohibits assistance to any power-sharing government of which 
Hamas is a member unless such government, including all its 
ministers or such equivalent, has met certain conditions.
Sec. 7041. Saudi Arabia
      The conference agreement includes a new provision 
prohibiting assistance for Saudi Arabia, similar to that 
proposed by the House. The conference agreement includes a 
waiver. The Senate did not include similar language.
Sec. 7042. Near East
      The conference agreement includes a new provision similar 
to that proposed by the Senate, which provides overall 
assistance levels in the Act for the countries of Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, and Lebanon. The conferees note that these levels do 
not include funds that may be derived through regional funding 
within the individual appropriations accounts. The provision 
also includes a funding level for the West Bank and Gaza.
      The provision includes language, similar to that proposed 
by the Senate, regarding the establishment of an endowment to 
further the shared interests of the United States and Egypt, 
consistent with the purposes for which such funds are requested 
in the fiscal year 2010 CBJ materials and appropriated under 
such heading. The House did not include a similar provision. 
The conferees recognize that discussions and negotiations on 
such an endowment will take time, and direct the Secretary of 
State to consult with the Committees on these efforts. 
Consultation should include explanation of the specific 
definition of shared interests, and how such interests would be 
furthered through an endowment. The conferees note that such 
funds are subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
      The provision includes language continuing the 
transparency and accountability reporting requirements 
contained in the statement of managers accompanying the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32, House 
Report 111-151) under the MRA heading. The House had included 
the reporting requirement as a separate general provision. The 
Senate bill did not include a similar requirement.
Sec. 7043. Iran Sanctions
      The conference agreement includes a provision similar to 
that proposed by the House which modifies the reporting 
requirement in the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 
111-8) by adding a statement of policy in subsection (a) and 
including a limitation in subsection (b). The conferees intend 
``significant'' or ``material'' to mean aggregate transactions 
undertaken in a 12-month period valued in excess of 
$20,000,000. The conferees direct the Departments of State and 
Treasury to be responsible for determining what entities meet 
such standard. The conference agreement does not restrict the 
Export-Import Bank from modifying existing transactions. 
However, the conferees direct the Export-Import Bank to consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations prior to the modification 
or extension of financing to any existing project that would 
otherwise be prohibited by this section.
Sec. 7044. Aircraft Transfer and Coordination
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, regarding the use of Department of 
State and USAID aircraft, including a reporting requirement on 
air fleets.
Sec. 7045. Western Hemisphere
      The conference agreement includes funding and legislative 
requirements for a Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, as 
proposed by the House. The conference agreement includes a 
provision, similar to that proposed by the Senate, providing 
authority for USAID to continue support for an Economic and 
Social Development Fund for Central America, which is intended 
to address unemployment and other root causes of drug 
trafficking and criminal gangs, particularly among youth, in 
vulnerable communities. The conference agreement does not 
provide a specific funding level from under the ESF heading, as 
proposed by the Senate. The provision continues funding 
allocations and legislative requirements for Haiti, Guatemala, 
Mexico, Central America, and trade capacity building. The 
conferees intend that the pilot project required in subsection 
(h) will inform the findings and recommendations of the report 
required on passport cards, which should also include an 
analysis of the effect that expanding passport cards to air 
travelers may have on the fees for both the passport cards and 
passport books.
Sec. 7046. Colombia
      The conference agreement includes language similar to 
prior years except that it continues by reference the prior 
year funding restrictions and reporting requirements with the 
exception that (b)(1)(B)(iv) of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-8) is modified to include human rights 
defenders, journalists, trade unionists, political and 
religious leaders. The provision provides not more than 
$521,880,000 for assistance for Colombia from funds made 
available under the headings ESF, NADR, INCLE, IMET, and FMF. 
The conferees note that the cap established by this section 
includes funds that may be derived from regional accounts.
      Funds made available in this Act for Colombia are to be 
allocated according to the following table, subject to the 
provisions of section 7019 of this Act:

                                COLOMBIA
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                    Programs/Accounts                        authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign Military Financing..............................          55,000
International Military Education and Training...........           1,695
Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related             6,495
 Programs...............................................
Economic Support Fund:
    Support for Democracy...............................          20,250
    Alternative Development.............................         116,484
        Afro-Colombian/Indigenous Communities...........          15,000
        Biodiversity Conservation.......................           3,000
    Support for Vulnerable Groups/IDPs..................          45,000
    OAS Mission.........................................             250
    Demobilization and Reintegration....................          18,606
    Transfer to MRA.....................................           8,000
    Clean Energy Initiatives............................           1,200
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--ESF...............................         209,790
  International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement
 Support for Rule of Law Programs:
    Human Rights (USAID)................................           8,000
    Judicial Reforms Programs...........................           8,000
    Procuraduria General de la Nacion...................           3,000
    Defensoria del Pueblo...............................           1,000
    Office of the Attorney General:
        Human Rights Unit...............................           8,500
        Justice and Peace Unit..........................           5,000
        Witness/Victims Protection Program..............           5,000
        Investigations and Mass Graves..................           1,500
    UN High Commissioner for Human Rights...............             500
    Carabineros.........................................           3,000
    Individual Deserter Program.........................             500
    Demand Reduction....................................             500
    Money Laundering....................................             750
                                                         ---------------
        Subtotal--Support for Rule of Law Programs......          45,250
Interdiction, Eradication and Support:
    Support to the Colombian Military:
        Army Counterdrug Mobile Brigade.................           2,000
        Army Aviation Support...........................          35,000
        Air Bridge Denial Program.......................           1,000
        Navy Maritime Interdiction Support..............           5,000
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--Support to the Colombian Military.          43,000
    Support to the Colombian National Police:
        Aviation Support................................          50,000
        Support for Eradication.........................          53,000
        Support for Interdiction........................          25,000
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--Support to the Colombian National          128,000
             Police.....................................
    Program, Development and Support:
        United States Personnel.........................           2,029
        LES.............................................           2,151
        ICASS Costs.....................................           1,010
        Program Support.................................           1,510
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--Program, Development and Support..           6,700
    Critical Flight Safety Program:
        Huey-II Engines.................................           1,800
        Spray Aircraft procurement......................               0
        Huey-II procurement.............................           3,500
        Huey-II wiring..................................           1,500
        C208 Depot......................................             700
        UH-60L Depot....................................           6,000
        Huey-II Depot...................................           4,000
        C-27 Depot......................................           2,600
        AT-802 Depot....................................           2,600
        Aircraft/Aircrew Safety of Flight...............           3,250
            Subtotal--Critical Flight Safety Program....          25,950
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--Interdiction, Eradication and              203,650
             Support....................................
                                                         ---------------
            Subtotal--INCLE.............................         248,900
                                                         ---------------
                Total--Colombia.........................        521,880
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italics denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  program total.

Sec. 7051. Peacekeeping Assessment
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the House and Senate, which amends the cap on 
peacekeeping assessed costs to 27.3 percent in calendar year 
2010.
Sec. 7052. United Nations Human Rights Council
      The conference agreement includes a provision requiring a 
report on resolutions adopted by the UN Human Rights Council, 
similar to that proposed by the House. The Senate did not 
include a similar provision.
Sec. 7056. Landmines and Cluster Munitions
      The conference agreement includes language aligning the 
provision with United States Government policy guidance, as 
proposed by the Senate.
Sec. 7059. United States Agency for International Development 
        Management
      The conference agreement modifies specific funding and 
personnel levels; clarifies reporting requirements; continues a 
hiring authority provided in prior years, as proposed by the 
House; allocates specific funding for LES, as proposed by the 
Senate; and extends an authority related to Foreign Service 
Limited appointments.
Sec. 7060. Global Health Activities
      The conference agreement modifies the prior year funding 
level for voluntary family planning programs.
Sec. 7061. Development Grants Program
      The conference agreement modifies the prior year funding 
level and restricts the grant size to $2,000,000 to small NGOs, 
as proposed by the Senate. These funds shall be awarded in an 
open and competitive process in accordance with all applicable 
rules and regulations. Grants to support projects and 
activities in democracy and governance and that directly 
benefit women and girls, including programs to increase women's 
leadership capacity, should be supported. The conferees direct 
the USAID Administrator to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
Act, listing the grants made under this program in fiscal year 
2009, including the organizations that received grants and the 
amount and purpose of each grant.
Sec. 7062. Women in Development
      The conference agreement includes language requiring that 
food security and agricultural development programs take the 
unique needs of women into consideration, as proposed by the 
House.
Sec. 7063. Gender-Based Violence
      The conference agreement clarifies the application of 
this provision. The conferees endorse the gender-based violence 
reporting requirement as proposed in the House Report under the 
INCLE heading.
Sec. 7064. Education
      The conference agreement changes the funding levels; 
requires the continuation of the Coordinator of United States 
Government Actions to Provide Basic Education Assistance, as 
proposed by the House; and includes a requirement that 
education funding be coordinated with other development 
programs, as proposed by the House. The provision is further 
modified by providing specific funding levels for higher 
education assistance for Africa and for partnerships between 
African and United States institutions of higher education, as 
proposed by the Senate.
Sec. 7065. Reconciliation Programs
      The conference agreement modifies the prior year funding 
levels and makes a technical change. Funds provided for these 
programs shall be awarded in an open and competitive process in 
accordance with all applicable rules and regulations.
Sec. 7070. Africa
      The conference agreement excludes international 
peacekeeping training from the restriction placed on funding 
provided under the IMET heading; changes funding levels; 
includes a provision that makes funding available for programs 
to promote and support transparency and accountability in 
natural resource extraction programs; and modifies the funding 
restriction for Zimbabwe.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
restricts FMF assistance for Ethiopia due to reported human 
rights violations, similar to that proposed by the Senate. The 
provision excludes assistance to support the deployment of 
members of the Ethiopian military in international peacekeeping 
operations.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
restricts funding for Rwanda due to reported human rights 
violations, similar to that proposed by the Senate. The 
provision excludes assistance to improve border controls to 
prevent the importation of minerals into Rwanda, or to support 
the deployment of members of the Rwandan military in 
international peacekeeping operations.
      The conference agreement includes a provision related to 
Southern Sudan that is addressed under the ESF heading.
      Funds appropriated for counterterrorism programs shall be 
considered only under the strategic objective for which they 
were requested. Any deviation from the budget request for these 
programs, and funds appropriated for a Horn of Africa and Pan 
Sahel Program, shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations.
Sec. 7071. Asia
      The provision provides funding and conditions on 
assistance for Tibet, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Nepal, North 
Korea, the People's Republic of China, Philippines, and Timor-
Leste, similar to that proposed by the Senate, which are 
delineated under the ESF and FMF headings, as appropriate.
      The conference agreement includes language, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, regarding assistance for Vietnam.
Sec. 7075. Central Asia
      The conference agreement includes a provision which 
carries forward by reference the terms and conditions of 
sections 7075(a) and (b) and 7076(a) through (e) of the Omnibus 
Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) concerning 
limitations on assistance for Kazakhstan (relating to human 
rights and civil liberties, including obligations and 
commitments to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe) and Uzbekistan (relating to democracy and human 
rights), except that for the purposes of section 7076(e) 
``assistance'' does not include expanded IMET. This is 
substantively similar to that proposed by the Senate. The House 
proposed a limitation only on assistance for Uzbekistan.
      The conference agreement does not include language, as 
proposed by the Senate, concerning extractive industries in 
Kazakhstan. However, the conferees direct the Secretary of 
State to submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations, 
not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, detailing 
actions by the Government of Kazakhstan to implement the EITI 
and other actions to achieve transparency and accountability in 
managing revenues from oil, gas and mining.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
proposed by the Senate concerning defense articles, services 
and assistance for the countries of Central Asia. However, the 
conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations, not later than September 30, 
2010, describing the defense articles, defense services, and 
financial assistance provided by the United States to the 
countries of Central Asia during the 12-month period ending 30 
days prior to submission of such report; and the use during 
such period of defense articles, defense services, and 
financial assistance provided by the United States by units of 
the armed forces, border guards, or other security forces of 
such countries.
Sec. 7076. Afghanistan
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
requires that assistance be provided in a manner that utilizes 
Afghan entities, emphasizes the participation and leadership of 
Afghan women, and directly improves the security, economic and 
social well-being, and political status, of Afghan women and 
girls, similar to that proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
continues terms and conditions of section 1102(b)(1) of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32), as 
proposed by the Senate, and sets a funding level for programs 
that directly address the needs and protect the rights of 
Afghan women and girls, similar to that proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes a provision that 
continues the terms and conditions of section 1102(c) and (d) 
of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-
32) related to procurement and anti-corruption, as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a provision related to 
anti-corruption that withholds funds until the Secretary of 
State certifies that the Government of Afghanistan is 
cooperating fully with United States efforts against the 
Taliban and Al Qaeda and efforts to reduce poppy cultivation 
and illicit drug trafficking, similar to that proposed by the 
House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes a funding level for the 
National Solidarity Program and sets requirements for United 
States reconstruction efforts.
      The conference agreement includes a provision related to 
rule of law programs and a provision that restricts the United 
States Government from entering into a permanent basing rights 
agreement with Afghanistan.
Sec. 7078. United Nations Population Fund
      The conference agreement changes the funding level; 
includes transfer authority, as proposed by the House; includes 
a provision withholding funding related to the United Nations 
Population Fund's program in the People's Republic of China, as 
proposed by the House; and includes technical changes.
Sec. 7079. OPIC
      The conference agreement includes a provision, as 
proposed by the House and Senate, which enables a transfer of 
up to $20,000,000 to the OPIC account from title III of this 
Act if the President determines it furthers the purposes of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, subject to regular notification 
procedures. The agreement includes a provision, as proposed by 
the Senate, that authorizes and directs OPIC to issue binding 
environmental, transparency, worker rights, and human rights 
guidelines, applicable to all OPIC projects, within nine months 
of enactment of this Act, and to report not later than 180 days 
after enactment of this Act on OPIC's investment in renewable 
and other clean energy technologies and plans to significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its portfolio. The 
conference agreement includes a provision, modified from that 
proposed by the Senate, that extends OPIC's authorization for 
one year, through September 30, 2010.
Sec. 7081. Climate Change and Environment Programs
      The conference agreement modifies prior year funding 
levels; clarifies the use of clean energy, adaptation and 
biodiversity funding; includes language related to microfinance 
renewable energy programs; requires consultation prior to 
making a contribution to the Forest Carbon Partnership 
Facility; and makes technical changes.
      The conference agreement includes new language 
authorizing a United States contribution to the CTF. The 
conferees believe that the CTF should only support renewable 
energy and energy efficiency projects. The conferees do not 
believe the Fund should support nuclear energy projects, high 
impoundment dam projects or fossil fuel technologies except for 
in the transportation sector as provided in the Act. In 
addition, the conferees direct the Fund to take all necessary 
steps to ensure timely public access to and input into project 
descriptions and plans; and expect the Fund to ensure that all 
proper environmental and health reviews are undertaken and are 
made publicly available.

                 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget
                         Program                             authority
------------------------------------------------------------------------
USAID Biodiversity programs.............................         205,000
USAID Climate Change programs...........................         305,700
OES Climate Change programs.............................         145,500
    Least Developed Countries Fund......................          30,000
    Special Climate Change Fund.........................          20,000
Western Hemisphere Climate Change programs..............          12,000
Global Environment Facility.............................          86,500
Clean Technology Fund...................................         300,000
Strategic Climate Fund..................................          75,000
UN Climate Change programs..............................          57,500
Tropical Forest Conservation Act........................          20,000
                                                         ---------------
      Total.............................................      1,257,200
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Funding in italic denotes a non-add and is not in addition to the
  program total.

Sec. 7084. Anti-Kleptocracy
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, requiring the Secretary of State 
to maintain a list of officials of foreign governments and 
their immediate family members who the Secretary has credible 
evidence have been involved in corruption relating to the 
extraction of natural resources, and to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations summarizing such evidence for each 
individual on the list. The conferees note that past reports 
have been deficient and direct that future reports provide the 
required information, in a classified form if necessary. Any 
individual on the list shall be ineligible for admission to the 
United States. The conferees, recognizing the need to broaden 
sanctions against those who engage in corrupt practices, direct 
the Secretary to urge other governments to take similar steps.
Sec. 7085. International Prison Conditions
      The conference agreement includes a new provision, 
similar to that proposed by the Senate, that requires the 
Secretary of State to submit a report on conditions in prisons 
and other detention facilities in countries receiving United 
States assistance where the Assistant Secretary of State for 
Democracy, Human Rights and Labor has determined that arbitrary 
detention and/or cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, or 
inhumane conditions, is common, and identifying those countries 
whose governments are, and are not, making significant efforts 
to eliminate such conditions. The conference agreement provides 
that funds shall be made available, notwithstanding section 660 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Additionally, the 
conference agreement continues a provision (section 7034(f) of 
the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8)) 
directing the Secretary of State to designate a Deputy 
Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human 
Rights and Labor with primary responsibility for diplomatic 
efforts related to international prison conditions. The House 
did not include similar language.
Sec. 7086. Transparency and Accountability
      The conference agreement includes a provision that allows 
the Secretary of State to withhold funding from a UN 
organization or agency, similar to that proposed by the Senate; 
includes a provision regarding document disclosure at the 
International Monetary Fund (the Fund), as proposed by the 
Senate; includes a provision related to child labor and the 
Fund, as proposed by the Senate; clarifies the reporting 
requirement described in the budget transparency provision, as 
proposed by the House; provides up to $1,500,000 to assist the 
governments of certain countries to improve budget 
transparency; and includes a new provision to withhold ten 
percent of funds from the Asian Development Fund until the 
Secretary of the Treasury reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the Asian Development Bank is pursuing 
certain reforms to prevent future fraudulent or corrupt 
activities.
Sec. 7087. Disability Programs
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the Senate, providing not less than $5,000,000 
for programs and activities to address the needs and protect 
and promote the rights of people with disabilities in 
developing countries. The conferees direct that of this amount, 
$1,000,000 shall be made available for projects to develop, 
support, and strengthen sports programs for children and adults 
with physical or intellectual disabilities, to be made 
available on an open and competitive basis in accordance with 
all applicable rules and regulations.
Sec. 7088. Orphans, Displaced, and Abandoned Children
      The conference agreement clarifies the purposes for which 
funds may be used.
Sec. 7089. Sri Lanka
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the House and Senate, regarding assistance for 
Sri Lanka. While the conferees welcome the defeat of the Tamil 
Tigers, the conferees are concerned with internally displaced 
Sri Lankans who are still detained in closed camps, as well as 
other persons who have been imprisoned or are being prosecuted 
for publicly reporting attacks on civilians. The conferees 
direct the Secretary of State to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act on the extent to which the Government of 
Sri Lanka is treating internally displaced persons in 
accordance with international standards, including by 
guaranteeing their freedom of movement, providing access to 
conflict-affected areas and populations by humanitarian 
organizations and journalists, and accounting for persons 
detained in the conflict. The conferees are also concerned that 
the Government of Sri Lanka has not taken credible steps to 
promote reconciliation among Tamils and other minority ethnic 
groups. The conference agreement includes a provision directing 
the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the United States 
Executive Directors of the international financial institutions 
to vote against financial support for Sri Lanka, except to meet 
basic human needs, unless certain requirements are met. The 
conferees direct the Secretary of State to submit, not later 
than 180 days after enactment of this Act, a report 
supplementing the Secretary's October 21, 2009, report on 
crimes against humanity in Sri Lanka detailing what, if any, 
measures have been taken by the Government of Sri Lanka and 
international bodies to investigate such incidents, and 
evaluating the effectiveness of such efforts.
Sec. 7090. International Monetary Fund Provisions
      The conference agreement sets limitations and 
restrictions on funding provided to the New Arrangements to 
Borrow (NAB) program at the International Monetary Fund, 
similar to that proposed by the House. The provision includes 
language that sets conditions on continued United States 
participation in the NAB and that restricts United States 
participation in the NAB to not greater than 20 percent of the 
total.
Sec. 7091. Intellectual Property Rights Protection
      The conference agreement includes a provision, similar to 
that proposed by the House, requiring the Secretary of State to 
submit a report on actions to protect intellectual property 
rights during climate change negotiations. The conferees expect 
the report to include, but not be limited to, the following 
technologies: solar, biofuels, wind, batteries, and light-
emitting diode lighting. The conferees direct the Secretary to 
include updates on the United States position, efforts made, 
and any agreements reached with respect to financing, 
institutional structures to address technology transfer, and 
attempts to include compulsory licensing in international 
agreements. The conferees direct the Secretary to consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to submission of the 
initial report.
Sec. 7092. Prohibition on Certain First-Class Travel
      The conference agreement includes a provision prohibiting 
the use of funds for first-class travel by employees of 
agencies funded by this Act in contravention of federal 
regulations, as proposed by the House.
Sec. 7093. Limitation on Use of Funds in Contravention of Certain Laws
      The conference agreement includes a new provision, 
similar to that proposed by the House, which states that none 
of the funds provided in this Act or prior Acts may be used in 
contravention of any provision of, or amendment made by, this 
Act or of certain sections of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32). The provision further requires 
the Executive Branch to notify the Committees on Appropriations 
if a determination is made that a particular provision is 
unconstitutional.
      The following general provisions that were proposed in 
the House and Senate fiscal year 2010 bills are either 
addressed elsewhere or are not included in the conference 
agreement.
      Sec. 7006. (House) ``International Broadcasting.''
      Sec. 7042. (House) ``Iraq.''
      Sec. 7044. (House) ``Lebanon.''
      Sec. 7057. (Senate) ``Millennium Challenge Corporation.''
      Sec. 7069. (Senate) ``Locally Employed Staff.''
      Sec. 7074. (House) ``Uzbekistan.''
      Sec. 7086. (House) ``UNRWA Accountability.''
      Sec. 7087. (House) ``Limitation on Funds Relating to 
Transfer or Release of Individuals Detained at Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.''
      Sec. 7087. (Senate) ``Training and Equipment Reports.''
      Sec. 7092. (Senate) ``Cuba.''
      Sec. 7093. (Senate) ``Assistance for Foreign 
Nongovernmental Organizations.''
      The following general provisions enacted in Public Law 
111-8 are not included in this Act.
      Sec. 7006. ``Consular Affairs Reform.''
      Sec. 7041. ``Broadcasting Transparency.''
      Sec. 7042. ``Iraq.''
      Sec. 7044. ``Lebanon.''
      Sec. 7057. ``Millennium Challenge Corporation.''
      Sec. 7076. ``Uzbekistan.''
      Sec. 7087. ``Training and Equipment Reports.''
      Sec. 7092. ``Export-Import Bank Rescission.''

   DISCLOSURE OF EARMARKS AND CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING ITEMS

      Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives and rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, neither the conference report nor the accompanying 
joint statement of managers contains any congressional 
earmarks, congressionally directed spending items, limited tax 
benefits or limited tariff benefits as defined in the 
applicable House or Senate rules. Pursuant to clause 9(b) of 
rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives, neither 
the conference report nor the joint statement of managers 
contains any congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, or 
limited tariff benefits that were not (1) committed to the 
conference committee by either House or (2) in a report of a 
committee of either House on this bill or on a companion 
measure.


                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2010 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2009 amount, the 2010 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2010 
follow:

                        (In thousands of dollars)

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2009...     $50,758,813
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2010...........................................      52,202,963
House bill, fiscal year 2010............................      49,001,900
Senate bill, fiscal year 2010...........................      48,843,900
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2010..................      48,922,900
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2009..............................................      -1,835,913
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2010..................................      -3,280,063
    House bill, fiscal year 2010........................         -79,000
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2010.......................         +79,000

                                   David R. Obey,
                                   John W. Olver,
                                   Ed Pastor,
                                   Nita Lowey,
                                   Marcy Kaptur,
                                   David E. Price,
                                   Lucille Roybal-Allard,
                                   Marion Berry,
                                   Carolyn C. Kilpatrick,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Patty Murray,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                   Barbara A. Mikulski,
                                   Herb Kohl,
                                   Richard J. Durbin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Patrick J. Leahy,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Dianne Feinstein,
                                   Tim Johnson,
                                   Frank R. Lautenberg,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Christopher S. Bond
                                           (except for D.C. abortion),
                                   Robert F. Bennett
                                           (except for D.C. abortion),
                                   Susan Collins,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.